AMI-Gotchi - (C) 1997 AMI-Gerbil Software

This is not a review, as you were expecting from me, as it would be a bit
unfair as AMI-Gotchi is written by me.

When I released AMI-Gotchi 3, I thought that it was pretty good and
deserved some praise as it now had all the improvements that Andy Smith
(Ex. AF Games Editor - Editor of FG) suggested, but when he reviewed it,
he just said that is was a load of rubbish, like the other 2. This probably
put most people off playing it and finding out that it is not as bad as
Andy had made out. As soon as I read the review I buried AMI-Gotchi.

Recently, a few of my friends who I had just brough back to the Amiga after
a few years of PC Hell, wanted to see some of my games. First of all I
showed them SnakeWars, which is one of my least favorite games. Then I went
on to show them Ozz-Feast, which only one of my friends liked. My other
friends then went off saying that they were crap, but my other friend asked
if I had any other games, to which I replied "Yes, but they are worse than
the one you have just see. Besides, I have lost them". My friend kept on
asking me and asking me until I gave in and dug out AMI-Gotchi 3 and set it
up on my Amiga. He then continued to play while I sent a few e-mails from
my `other computer`. After about 10 minutes of playing he asked if I had
done another one, when I replied "no" he asked why and then told me that I
should continue. I just ignored him, until he had gone. I then decided to
have a little play around with it. I then realised that this was by far my
best game, but if I spent a few weeks updating the code, it could be
classified as "good". So I asked a few of my other friend on the net if
they had played it, to which most of them said that they had - which
pleased me, and most of them said they would like to see an updated version.

So I set about finding the code for it and then updating it. So what am I
talking about it here for, well I need you help. First, I need you to play
AMI-Gotchi 3 and give me feedback - tell what you want in the new version
and what bugs there are. I am also looking for a few beta testers, so if
you are interested in being a beta tester for "AMI-Gotchi - Power To The
Gotchi`s" then contact me at pttg.beta@ami-gerbil.freeserve.co.uk and leave
me your address, I will then send you a list of info for you to fill in - I
will send this form to EVERYONE who applies for being a beta tester. You
canonly get AMI-Gotchi 3 from the cover CD from Amiga Format issue 108, but
I will try and get a version (which doesn`t need to be on a disk) LHAed
and put on the web site you got this from and my we site, by 17/04/99.

If you would like to help with the graphics or sound please don`t hesitate
to ask, but I don`t NEED any yet, but they would help.

Also, if you are a games publisher and are interested in publishing it,
then please contact me.

Samuel Brookes - stuff@ami-gerbil.freeserve.co.uk
       www.amigerbil.free-online.co.uk