{center}
{subhead} Dark Citadel Solution{def}
{left}
{p} {p}

{bold}Level 1 - The Portal{nobold}
{p} {p}
Pick up the book and read it. Get the key and head east. Take the bucket from
the well and look in the well. Return to the first room and unlock the door
with the iron key. Go south, picking up the knife, and taking the way west into
a room with a wooden floor. Find your way around the barrels and collect the
stick and gum. Try eating the gum. Use the chewed gum on the bucket to plug the
hole. Leave this room and go south. Collect the small rock and continue south
and then east to find a scroll. Take the scroll and read it. Keep heading east
to find a door key. Pick it up and return west and then south to unlock the
door which it fits. Exploring this new room, take the fish and cheese and note
the empty drinking fountain. (The apple is not needed but can be eaten if you
wish.) Now, go directly north to the big rock and use the scroll (Spelle of
Levitation) on it. Use the knife on the cracked tile beneath to reveal a tap.
Operate the tap and return south to find the drinking fountain now full. Fill
the bucket and head north past the tap and then east to find a pair of pliers
in a fire beside an anvil. Use the bucket of water on the fire and take the
pliers. Drop the bucket and collect the string. Use the string on the stick to
make a fishing pole and pick up the horseshoe before leaving to the west. Keep
going west to return to the wooden floored room. Make your way through the
barrels to find the broken floorboard. Remove the floorboard using the pliers.
Drop the pliers and take the bronze key. Leave the room and head south past the
tap and then east to a locked chest. Use the bronze key to open the chest and
take the magnet. Use it on the fishing pole and take the silver coin from the
chest too. Go north, west, north and then east to find yourself back at the
well. Use the magnetic fishing pole to catch an iron key. Leave the fishing
pole and get the key. Return to the chest you have just unlocked by going west,
south and then east and unlock the door which is to the east. Go through the
doorway and head east, south and east again to come face to face with an orc.
Look at him. Now, head directly west to find a catapult. Load the catapult by
dropping the small rock on it and fire the catapult to remove the orc. Go east
past where the orc was and continue until you find a way to the south. Go south
here and collect the key. The way west is blocked by the orc who now has a
bandaged head. Go back north and west to the room with the catapult. As soon as
you enter the room go south to find a cracked floor tile. Use the knife to
reveal a ring. Take it and leave the knife behind. Go west, north and east
passing another catapult and finding a locked door. Unlock it and go through.
Then head west and north into a wooden floored room. Take the saw and leave the
room, heading east and then north to a new room. Collect the bronze key from
the top of the barrel and go to the far east of the room where there is a rat.
To get rid of the rat, stand between the barrels facing south and drop the
cheese. The rat will take it and run away. (If you stand in view of the rat and
drop the cheese, he will smell the cheese but not take it.) Now pick up the
scroll which the rat was guarding and read it. Leave the room and go west and
south to the catapult room. Take the west exit, heading back towards the start.
Go as far west as you can and then head north to the locked chest. Unlock it
and drop the book so that you can take the needle and ring. Now, retrace your
steps by going south and then east to the catapult room. From here take the
east exit and keep going until you find a room to the north with a skull on an
altar. Look at the skull and the inscription on the altar. Drop the needle on
the altar to answer the riddle. Head north to where you will find a note from
Gnaxar. Take it and read it. Proceed west to find another riddle. Use the fish
to answer it and take the way south. Pick up the bell, leaving the cross
behind, and make your way back north, east and then south through the first
riddle room. Go west a short way and then south to arrive in the room where the
orc is blocking the west exit. Use the scroll (Spelle of Shrinking) to dispose
of him. Go west to find another riddle and answer it with the saw. Head west
once more and then south to find yet another riddle. This time answer it by
dropping the horseshoe on the altar and head west and then south to find a
bronze key. Now make your way back to the final chest by going north, east,
north, east, north and then west into the catapult room. The chest is in the
north-east corner of the room. Unlock it and take the ring and copper coin
within. Now, leave by taking the east exit and keep going until you find the
way south again. Go south and keep heading west to find a locked door and a
final riddle. Answer it with the bell and go west into the portal room. Look at
the skull and pay your fare by dropping both coins on the altar. Now, stand in
the centre of the portal (the pentagram on the floor) facing the altar. Use
each of the three rings in the order given in Gnaxar's note (red-green-blue) to
be transported to the next level.
{p} {p}
{p} {p}
{bold}Level 2 - The Labyrinth{nobold}
{p} {p}
Collect the crystal ball from the altar just to the north of where you start.
Move a little to the west and then north into a room full of levers. Take the
empty bag and exit again to the south. Head east until you come to a red
carpet. Operate the bottom left corner of the carpet to lift it up and reveal a
key. Pick up the key and head west until you come to the end of the hallway.
Unlock the door which leads west and enter this room. Take the key from the
altar and go back out to the east. In the hallway, go to the first locked door
which leads south and unlock it. Go through the doorway and collect the shield
and the broken arrow. Lift the top right corner of the southernmost carpet to
find another key. Take it and go west to come to a pile of rocks. Fill the
empty bag with rocks. Now, go east then north to the hallway and east a little
way until you come to a locked door leading north. Unlock it and enter the room
to find two altars with raised platforms. Drop the crystal ball on one platform
and the bag of rocks on the other to open the door to the north. Go north and
pick up the door key from the corner of the room. Head west along a passage to
find your way blocked by the Guardian. Look at him. Now, find your way back to
the hallway by going east and then south. Next, go west a short way and take
the first doorway south to enter a room full of holes. Drop the shield on the
first hole and walk across it and to the west. Turn around and pick up the
shield again. Repeat this process, dropping the shield to cover each hole,
until you work your way to the south-east corner of the room where you will
find a scroll. Take the scroll and read it. Make your way back out of the room
using the shield to bridge the holes as before. Now, head to the east end of
the hallway until you come to a locked door. Look at the inscription on the
altar next to the door. Use the scroll (Spelle of Enlightenment) on the altar
and read the inscription again. Make a note of the directions of the arrows
shown. Go south and pick up the bronze key from the chair. Move north and west
to the hallway. Head to the west end and take the doorway leading west. Unlock
the chest against the west wall with the bronze key. Take the jar of honey.
(You can take the sweet and eat it if you want.) Unlock the door which leads
south and enter a room which contains a drinking fountain. Eat the honey from
the jar and fill it with water from the drinking fountain. Go east and collect
the spade from the pile of rocks. Head back to the hallway by going west, north
then east. Once back in the hallway go east a short way and take the first
doorway leading north. Operate the levers in this room to match the directions
of the arrows which you saw earlier on the altar. When you get all of the
levers right you will hear a door open. Now, leave the room and go to the east
end of the hallway. Keep going east through the doorways into the labyrinth.
Take care not to wander too far into the labyrinth yet as it is very easy to
get lost. Go north to the first passage leading east. Go east here to the first
way south and take it. Keep going south until you come to a plant growing at
the end of the passage. Use the jar of water on the plant and take the flowers
which it produces. Now, retrace your steps by going north, west, south and west
again until you arrive back in the hallway. Go through the first doorway
leading north and continue north until you come to the passage leading west.
Follow this to arrive at the Guardian. Use the flowers to gain access to the
Hall of the Undead. Open all of the coffins using the spade. Look at all of the
skeletons which you reveal and pick up the piece of parchment, the bronze key
and the note which you will find. You can drop the jar, flowers and shield as
they are no longer needed. The note can also be left behind once it has been
read. When you've finished in this room leave it by the exit to the east and
travel south to arrive back in the hallway. Go to the room at the west end of
the hallway and open the remaining chest with the bronze key. Take the flute
and try playing it. Examine the flute, drop it and use the broken arrow on it.
Use the piece of parchment you are carrying with the one which comes out of the
flute. Look at the completed parchment. Drop it and use the scroll (Spelle of
Enlightenment) on it. Pick up the map and look at it. Now, go back to the
hallway by heading east and continue going east until you re-enter the
labyrinth. Once in the labyrinth head north as far as you can. Then, follow the
passage to the west until it turns north again. Head north until you reach the
second passage east. Take this and then the first passage north. Follow this
passage as it turns east and continue east until you can go no further. Now, go
north following the passage west before choosing to go north once more. Follow
this passage to arrive at a dead end where you will find a bronze key which you
must take. Now, refering to the map which you carry, make your way through the
labyrinth to the southernmost room marked on it. Unlock the chest you will find
in this room and take the bone. Again using your map, find your way back to the
Hall of the Undead and use the bone on the skeleton with a missing leg bone.
Take the key which he gives you and head back through the labyrinth to the
north-west corner of the map. Unlock the door leading west and go through.
{p} {p}
{p} {p}
{bold}Level 3 - The Wizard's Lair{nobold}
{p} {p}
Pick up the scroll from the altar in the north-west corner of the room and read
it. Now, go south into a room with tables and chairs and take the jam sandwich
from the southernmost table. Leave the room by taking the west exit into a
north-south passageway. Follow the passage south and then west a little way.
Take the first doorway leading south to arrive in a room with a long altar
containing a stone wheel and two levers. Try operating the levers before going
east into a smaller room. Collect the bronze key from the altar and go west and
then north to return to the passageway. Head west until you come across another
passage leading south. Go south here and then go through the first doorway
leading west. Take the lamp and leave the room. Continue along the passageway
heading south and then west until you are confronted by a large hole in the
floor. Turn around and head east and then north until you arrive at the other
passageway which leads east and west. Head west into a large room with a
cauldron at the centre. Drop the bronze key and lamp. Go to the west end of the
room where you will find a fly on a table. Try to pick up the fly. Move to the
table which lies just to the north of the cauldron where you will see that the
fly has landed. Try to get it again. Now, move to the eastern part of the room
and try once more to get the elusive fly. Head west to find the fly back in its
original position. Now, try to eat the jam sandwich and take the half eaten
sandwich and drop it on the table to the north of the cauldron in exactly the
place where the fly landed before. Return to the fly and try to get it again.
Head back to the sandwich and look at the fly. Take the fly and leave the room
by the eastern exit. Go east and take the first passageway leading south.
Follow the passage all the way south and then west to arrive at the large hole.
Stand facing the hole and ensure that you are carrying only the scroll and the
fly. Use the scroll (Spelle of Transmigration.) Now, head west and go through
the first doorway north. Take the dustpan. Leave the room and head west along
the passage once more. When you arrive in a room with purple tiles on the
floor, take the key from the chair in the north-west corner. Head south from
this room into a passageway which runs east-west and follow it east to come to
a locked door. Unlock it and enter a room which has an altar at its north end.
Read the inscription on the altar to the left of the raised platform. Use the
dustpan on the pile of ashes which are on the floor. Take the east exit into a
room which has bookshelves along its north and south walls. Go to the north
bookshelf and take the painting from it. Look at the painting. Collect the
scroll from the table and read it before going to the south bookshelf and
picking up the iron key. Leave the room by going west and continue through the
next room to the passageway. Take the first doorway north into the room with
the purple floor tiles and keep going northwards into the next room. Continue
until you encounter a locked door leading north. Unlock it and go north to find
yourself back in the cauldron room. Collect the bronze key which you dropped
earlier but leave the hat and lamp behind. Exit the room heading south again
and continue into the purple tiled room. From here head west and follow the
passageway to a small room with a locked chest. Unlock it and take the gear.
Collect the oil can too and leave the room, following the passage back to the
room with the purple tiles. This time head south and then west along the
passageway to enter a bedroom. Take the mirror from the table which is just to
the north of the doorway and leave the room heading east and then north all the
way to the cauldron room. Collect the lamp left here earlier and exit by the
east doorway. Keep going east until you come to the second opening leading
south. Go through this doorway into the room with the stone wheel and levers.
Use the oil can on the left hand lever. Move to the broken part of the altar
and look inside. Use the gear on it and look at it again. Now, drop the
painting on the floor and use the mirror on it. Reading from the bottom
upwards, note the sequence of numerals indicated in the painting. Operate the
left hand lever until the number shown on the wheel is the same as the first in
the sequence in the painting. When it is, move to the right hand lever and
operate it once. Move back to the left hand lever and continue moving the wheel
to each number of the sequence, entering each one with the right hand lever.
When you have entered the combination correctly you will hear a noise. Head
east into the next room and you will find that one of the statues has moved
aside to reveal a ladder. Try to use the ladder. Drop the lamp and use the
scroll (Spelle of Kindling) on it. Take the lamp and use the ladder. At the
bottom of the ladder head east and take the second opening north. Collect the
bottle of glue from the open chest and exit to the south. Follow the passageway
back to the west until you are able to take another passage northwards. Go
north here and then west through the first doorway into another room. Pick up
the piece of pottery from the altar to the south. Exit the room and head south
and then west to arrive back at the ladder. Use the ladder to climb back up.
Now, go west and then north to the passageway and then west again until you
enter the cauldron room. Take the hat and examine it. Drop the hat and take the
pin which fell out of it. You can also drop the oil can and mirror which you
have finished with. Exit the cauldron room by the exit which leads south and
keep heading the same way through the purple tiled room until you reach the
east-west passage. Go east into the room with the altar which has the
inscriptions. Use the glue on the piece of pottery which is in the room and
then use the other piece of pottery with it to re-construct an urn. Take the
urn and place it on the raised platform in the middle of the altar. Use the
dustpan full of ashes on the urn. Look at the inscription to the right of the
urn. Leave the room by going west and continue until you re-enter the bedroom.
Make your way to the bookshelf along the north wall. Find the brown book which
is lying on its side with an hourglass symbol on its cover. Look at it and then
try to take it. Take the bronze key which is revealed. Move to the south-west
corner of the room and unlock the chest. Take the gold pendant and look at it.
Take the staff from the table against the south wall and move north to the bed.
Operate the pillow, to lift it, and take the piece of paper which was hidden
there. Now, leave by heading east and keep going to arrive back in the room
where the urn is on the altar. Drop the gold pendant on the altar with the
inscription to the right of the urn. Take the gold pendant and look at it
again. Drop it once more and use the pin on it. Take the gold key. Leave the
room heading west and take the passage northwards. Keep going north until you
arrive back in the cauldron room. Go through the room and exit by the doorway
leading east. Keep going east and go through the second opening leading south.
Head east from here to find yourself back at the ladder. Climb down, and at the
bottom, go east and then first north. Then, enter the first room to the west.
Go to the north end of the room to find a gold box. Unlock it with the gold key
and pick up the elixir. Exit the room and follow the passageway northwards
until it turns east into a room with small holes in the floor. Look at the
piece of paper which you are carrying. Use the staff on the holes in the floor,
following the sequence shown on the paper. When you complete the sequence
correctly the wall to the north of the holes will open and allow you to escape
from the Dark Citadel.
