{center}
{subhead} Editorial{def}
{p}
By Chris Seward
{p} {p}
{left}

Welcome to the new year!!! we now sit in 1999 with no clear view on
how the Amiga is going or when we can expect something to happen. People
said that the Amiga would never last this far but it has and as always 
people will still go on saying that the Amiga will be dead in 5 months 
or a year. Personally I don't believe it will die, well not any time 
soon. Even if Amiga Inc/Int folded the Amiga would still live on for a 
good few years and then still further with many people. 
{p} {p}
The Amigas trouble started in late 1993 and was really well known by
1994, the Amiga community probably halfed in that time and the PC 
spread around the world and took up place in most buildings on this
planet, although the Amiga was still around and now over 4 years on
we are still here, no official computer has been released and not alot
officially has been done in these past 4 years, so why if the Amiga
can last for 4 years without help will it suddenly die in the next
couple of months or a year at maximum?
{p} {p}
It seems to me alot of Amiga users just see the end and not a beginning,
why should it not happen? Why can't the Amiga retake its place
in glory and be the monster computer it once was? Ok. I will be the
first to admit that Amiga Int/Inc have not told us alot about what
is going on but that does not mean that nothing is happening. The PC
as it is known today just came out without much warning and took the
spot of the Amiga. People may say that the PC has done much better now
than the Amiga did in its day but it grabbed the market at the time
it was needed, the big computer boom happend because people wanted it
to, they wanted life made easier and let computers do more of the work,
in everyday life a computer became more necessary, not because the
PC came out but because it was what public demand wanted or required.
It would be like a missile timed to hit an asteroid at a certain time
and the timing was so important that if it was to early, disaster, but
instead it hit at the correct time, bang on target and it took off.
{p} {p}
Now 4 years later the worlds demand has probably over doubled what it
was in 1994 and now everything is either computer controlled or in
some way needs to be. Why in the console world can there be 4 different
machines out that all are unique and none are compatible, the Playstation,
N64, Dreamcast and the failed Saturn. The world is expanding and people
demand more, no one in the world is the same, each and everyone is
different. Meaning that what they require from something is also different
and the way they see something is totally different from someone else
and how they would see it. These days choice is everything and people
want to have an option on what they can buy or use, noone wants to be
forced to use/have something because it is the only type, what if they
only made one pair of shoes and everyone in the world had to wear those
because there was no alternative. You would wear them because you had
to, to take out every day situations, not everyone would like them but
they would have to wear them. In that respect a computer is the same,
the reason people won't use the Amiga these days is because they haven't
heard of it, alot of computer (PC) users these days are lucky if they
have been using a computer for more than 2-3 years and at that time
the Amiga was no where to been seen.
{p} {p}
Some might say why hasn't the Mac taken off, well mainly it doesn't
offer what people want, but if the Amiga offers what people want and
uses industry standard formats etc the Amiga can and hopefully will
make a come back.