{backimage bg.iff}
{center}
{subhead}Technical Update Part 1 - 12 April 2001{def}{p}
Article by AMIGA
{left}
{pp}
On the 31st of March, 2001 at the Amiga show held in St Louis, the
Chairman and CEO of Amiga, Mr Bill McEwen, unveiled the full Amiga
strategy. While only pieces of it had come out in the previous year,
this was the first time that it was explained in detail and in full.
{pp}
That presentation was an intimate affair, given to the few hundred
attendees at the show banquet. This update now takes the information
presented at the banquet and makes it wholly available for the world.
{pp}
The future is a content future. Information and activity is slowly
migrating from the physical and analogue to the digital.
Entertainment, research, work, shopping, conversation, education; all
are crossing over to take advantage of the digital universe.
{pp}
Access to this digital universe is via any device that has a
microprocessor, understands the digital language, and can connect to
that digital universe. In the past this was limited to million dollar
mainframes.  As technology advanced, the universe became accessible
to two thousand dollar desktops. Today, technology has developed to
such an extent that this digital universe can be accessed from three
hundred dollar games consoles and one hundred dollar cellphones.
{pp}
The user now has a huge choice when it comes to accessing the one
constant; the digital universe. They have the workstation, the
desktop, the set top box, the games console, the PDA, the cell phone.
Which one they choose depends on many things - where they are, what
they want to do, what time it is. For Amiga, this is the new
challenge, the new frontier, the new WWW. Whatever, Whenever,
Wherever.
{pp}
All of these devices can access the digital universe, but each of
them comes with a set of capabilities decided by price, market and
form factor. Each plays a part and fits into a role that in the past
defined the activity but which now describes only a profile. For
instance 'Desktop' used to be synonymous with word processing, image
manipulation and web browsing. Now those activities have escaped mere
hardware to become activities in their own right on many other
devices.
{pp}
These activities have a set of requirements; services that they
require in order to take place.  Similarly, devices have a set of
capabilities; services that they can offer to allow activities to
take place. Future digital environments will simply match activities
to devices based upon requirements and capabilities, scaling the
activity up or down to match the capabilities of the host device.
Activities will be free of a particular type or piece of hardware,
and this will free users from the restrictions imposed on them by the
restriction inherent in that hardware.
{pp}
Increasingly it will be the digital content and the digital activity
itself that becomes the only concern. This is a traditional sign that
a technology is maturing, as the underlying technology becomes
invisible to the user.  Digital Living will finally deliver on its
promise of Whatever, Whenever, Wherever.
{pp}
Amiga intends to energise this transition through the creation of a
revolutionary product, the Amiga Digital Environment or AmigaDE. The
AmigaDE will provide a universal content layer that can sit on any
digital device, irrespective of its hardware form or component set,
and give both users and developers (content consumers and content
producers) a common place in which to conduct digital activity.
{pp}
AmigaDE offers the unique capability of being able to deploy itself
either directly on hardware, co-operatively on a software host
(running just like another application on an existing Operating
System) or, uniquely, on a software host where the user only sees the
AmigaDE but takes advantage of the feature set of the software host.
{pp}
For the user, the AmigaDE provides a brand new source of rich,
compelling content; everything from games through Internet adventures
to productivity, content creation and serious work. All of this
available on any device that supports the AmigaDE thus not tied to a
specific device or computer type. The user gets freedom of choice
handed back to them. If they want to add the AmigaDE to their
existing computer set up, they can. If they want to use only the
AmigaDE, they can.
{pp}
The user choses the activity they want to perform and the device on
which they want to perform that activity. The AmigaDE works to match
activity requirements to device capabilities and provides them with
the optimum experience.
{pp}
For the content producer, the AmigaDE offers a truly universal
solution: Content can be created only once and then distributed to
any AmigaDE user, irrespective of the device that they are using. As
long as the device has the capabilities to support the content, it
will work. No more having to create different versions of the same
content for Windows, Macintosh and Linux. No more having a great
product excluded from the new Set Top Box and PDA markets. The
AmigaDE provides a level playing field and brings a multitude of
smaller, separate markets into one common market with all the
business advantages and opportunites that this entails.
{pp}
The AmigaDE is a true content environment, allowing users everywhere
on every platform and every device to enjoy great content.  In the
home, families can start to build collections of content (everything
from games and productivity applications to digital movies, pictures,
music and documentation) and access this content from any any of the
devices in their home, and ultimately from any device on the planet.
{pp}
This content will be downloaded from the Internet or across satellite
and cable channels, or by good old fashioned CDs and DVDs and stored
on the individual devices. However, as the family collects more and
more of this digital content, they may want to collect it all
together in a local digital repository, where it can be catalogued,
protected and shared amongst all their digital devices without the
hassle of having to carry CDs or DVDs between rooms or getting into a
fight because eldest son is on the family computer and mother only
has the game console.
{pp}
Amiga intends to solve this problem and thus provide a complete
solution for Digital Living, by offering yet another new product: the
AmigaOS. This is a completely separate product from the AmigaDE and
is not needed in order to enjoy the wonderful benefits of the
AmigaDE.
{pp}
The AmigaOS, together with compliant hardware, will provide a product
that will sit at the heart of the digital home.  As a repository, it
will allow the family to store any type of digital content that they
chose, securely and easily accessed. As a server, it will allow the
family to move that content to any device within the digital home,
and beyond if they so desire, guaranteeing optimum delivery quality
at all times. As a gateway, it will provide a single source of entry
for all digital content into the home, providing protection from
attacks and incursions, allowing parents to control access to
external content and consolidating all digital paths.
{pp}
For the majority of digital families, the AmigaOS device will sit out
of the way, requiring minumum maintenance whilst quietly and
efficiently enhancing their digital experience. For those interested
in a new level of multimedia experience however, the AmigaOS device
can also be used as a powerful computer in its own right, and it
comes with the additional advantage of the AmigaDE running
co-operatively on it, providing direct access to the content that it
is also busy serving to other AmigaDE enabled devices in the home.
{pp}
The world is changing. The way people work, the way they play, the
way they communicate, the way they shop and the way they produce and
consume. The very act of living itself is moving forwards to a new
age. Amiga understands this change; indeed, it has been at the
forefront of it since 1984 when it introduced the world to multimedia
for the very first time.
{pp}
With its two new products, the AmigaDE and the AmigaOS, people no
longer have to stumble over incompatible products and disappointing
content. On their own, these two products offer outstanding
performance and value for money. Together, they mark the beginning of
Digital Life.
{pp}
For those interested in using an AmigaOS device as a computer, or for
a more technical explanation of the Amiga strategy, please click {link fe3}here{end}
for Part 2 of the Technical Update.
{pp}
