{center}
{image AE-Pic2.iff}
{left}
{pp}
Note: with the demo version you can only rip/edit one minute of the
sample. Not much perhaps, but it's enough to try it out.
{pp}
{bold}Ok, here we go!{nobold}
{pp}
Make sure you have connected all hardware into the soundcard (the
connectors should be from the amplifier's "Rec out" into the
soundcard), once this is done you can check if it works by opening
the MelodyControl program from the WBStartup (or whereever you might
have placed it) and checking the "Loopback" gadget on the Output
section and checking the "Active" gadget on Line 1 under Input. The
cassette/LP will now be heard playing through your speakers connected
to the Amiga. Also make sure that the volume on Line 1 is at maximum
in the MelodyControl program. LP's have a very weak output signal, so
in order to get decent sound it's worth taking a minute or two to set
the output values correctly (I'm not entirely sure either if it even
works without an amplifier if ripping an LP). If it's a cassette
you're ripping you might get by without an external amplifier, as
they (depending on your cassette-deck) have a little stronger output
signal; an amplifier is highly recomended though, to get the best
sound. I heard somewhere that it's best to only have the LP player or
cassette-deck connected into the amplifier while ripping, otherwise
there can be some sort of interference with the signals - while I
wrote this I had all devices still connected into the amplifier, but
turned off, so I don't know. If you experience trouble you can always
try to disconnect the other and see if it works better. Should the
volume still not be satisfactory you can change the volume later on
(using the effects, right-clicking on the sample and choosing
"effects > gain > amplifier", here you set the percentage you want to
increase the volume. Also, remember to set the Master Volume
correctly, this is done via the Mixing table window at the rightmost
meter.)
{pp}
Now that you've listened a little on the LP, and adjusted the volume
to what's comfortable, it's time to actually record and edit the
song. Somewhere in the middle of the AE screen is a little window
called "Control", it has play, stop, pause and, yes, you guessed
right. A record button. Please look at the screenshot above if you
are uncertain. Click on the little red Record button, now a new
little window will appear, this is as you'll notice the "Record"
window itself, now press Play on your LP and press the button with a
little red dot on it and the text "Rec" on it. Don't worry about
recording the silence before the LP starts playing, I will show you
how to remove it later on. Now, you will notice a little light
twinkling to the left of the Rec button, this indicates that there's
data being written to the HD. Hopefully you'll have a fast HD,
preferably SCSI or with some sort of enhanced IDE-interface, such as
Eide'99 or something similar to that. It's crucial that you have alot
of free space and that it's a fast HD, otherwise you can get jerky
sound if the program isn't able to write everything as it's being
played. Now all you need to do is lean back and wait as the LP is
being played and saved to your harddrive. While being copied to your
hard drive, the sound resides in a file called "RECORDSAMPLE", this
is the file which you later get to rename and save to your drive.
{pp}
When the side you're playing is finished and you've savoured every
second of sweet crackling it's time to edit the sample. After you've
pressed the "Stop" button on the Record window, a new window called
"After Recording" will appear where you are able to choose whether
you want to keep the thing you've just recorded, create a PCG (Pre
Computed Graphics), and which channels you want to save. The PCG can
be a pretty good thing to use, they are small files which holds the
information of how the sample looks like, and will save you alot of
time while editing the sample (especially if you use 68k!), so the
program doesn't have to calculate how the sample looks like everytime
you zoom in to get a better look at what you're really cutting away.
It may be noted that this entire process could be a little better,
even with larger scaling it's sometimes a bit difficult to with eyes
alone pinpoint what you want to cut (at least on PAL screenmodes).
The parts you don't want to keep on your newly ripped sample you
remove by marking with the mouse on the sample, simply by pressing
the left mouse button and drag the white field that appears until you
feel it's enough. I use a somewhat unconventional method to achieve
this (meaning there's most likely a better way of doing it- copy to
buffer, then save buffer does the same thing, from within the
program), after marking the parts to keep, I press the "copy to
buffer" button, this copies the selected area to a file in the
"samples" drawer called "TEMPSAMPLE" (you can change the path where
you want the samples to reside in the preferences by the way), after
that I simply copy or move it to where I want to keep it and renaming
it. Now, after you're finished with the editing, the part you just
copied to another file still remains in the original sample - you can
remove this by pressing the "cut range" button. Now, you just repeat
the process with the other things you want to portion up into...
well, say 10 second pieces of your one minute sample.
{pp}
{center}
{image AE-sampleditwin.IFF}
{left}
{pp}
See, this wasn't so hard, now was it? By now you should be able to
snag all your LP's and cassettes, completely forgetting why you ever
bought a CD player in the first place! Also, it might be worth noting
that I have only described the way of actually ripping things, not so
much applying effects and so on. However, should this be something
you want to do, I'm sure the manual could show you how to do it
better than I could!
{pp}
{bold}And the conclusion is...?{nobold}
{pp}
AudioEvolution is a very good program, indeed. It does however lack
some things I'd rather have seen being there; such as a more
"comfortable" way of copying, cutting and pasting the parts of the
sample you've selected- shortcut keys would make it alot better, too.
Having some way of undo the cutting and effects put on a sample would
also have been nice to have. Support for Wave samples would have been
good as well. The actual results of the effects I tried placing on
the samples had somewhat dubious and blurry results sometimes, the
"fade in/out" effect for example. There are also some quite annoying
graphical bugs, if you load samples with long filenames (this
particular bug can be seen on the "sample edit" window screenshot);
AE only has support for the standard FFS (Fast File System)
character-length. But on the bright side AE definately covers all the
basics you need, either as a musician, or if you simply want to play
around a little with samples, rip cassettes or LP's and not doing too
advanced things with the results. Plus, it's quite easy to get a hang
of the way things are done.
{pp}
{bold}Available from{nobold}: {link http://www.audio-evolution.com}http://www.audio-evolution.com{end})
{pp}
{bold}Overall{nobold}: 88%
{pp}                        
