World Of Amiga 3

Welcome once again to World Of Amiga. My work on Issue two is done, and
I have nothing better to do, so I thought I might as well start Issue
3. People still have to get their articles in for Issue 2 yet, but
I've finished my lot. See how efficient I am :)

I'm going to try and write some extra long articles and see if anyone
thinks it's any better than the other lengthed one's I used to write.
I don't know what they're going to be about yet, but there'll be
there somewhere.

Right, this isssue, we've got quite a few articles. More competitions,
a few more tutorials, some more reviews, more PD stuff from Sam,
some nice Internet sites for you to look at, and some nice serious
software. So basically, the same as last issue.... but better.

You're probably beginning to wonder what we're playing at with regard
to the WOA Online edition. Well, unfortunately, this will be delayed
for another couple of issues. But rest assured, we will get around
to doing it eventually. Just as long as someone offers their services :)

Finally, I'd like to thank the people who made Issue 2 such a success.
With over a 360 readers, I think it was pretty successful. Thanks
everyone. And I hope you keep on reading!

--- Credits

 Editor: Neil Bullock
 Co-Editor: Sam Brookes
 Games Editor: (Position Available)
 Technical Editor: Neil Bullock
 Technical Writers: (Positions Available)
 Games Reviewers: (Positions Available)
 HTML Converter: (Position Available)

Want to Apply for these positions? Send Email to the address
below...

 Contributors: Peter Cage (Internal)

--- Contact Us

woa@trogsoft.freeserve.co.uk
   Our main WOA Email address. Send most stuff here

woa_co-editor@ami-gerbil.freeserve.co.uk
   Sam the Co-Editor's address.

www.trogsoft.freeserve.co.uk is our WWW page

--- Copyright

All contents, except various contribution articles, are
Copyright (c) 1999 Neil Bullock and Trogladite Software. Whole articles
or large portions of articles may not be reproduced under any
circumstances without written permission from the copyright holder.
Small portions may be taken from articles and used as quotes.
Whole archive can be redistributed freely as long as no more than
a nominal fee is charged and no files are added or removed. Legal
action can be taken against people who choose To ignore this
information.
