
P<                           VISCorp y Amiga Technologies
   P>                        ----------------------------

       P8 Antes de nada. Este artículo son numerosos extractos de  textos  que
 he ido recopilando de InterNet o que  mi  buen  amigo  Rocha  me  ha pasado 
 también sacados de InterNet. Debido  a  esto es posible que el artículo sea
 un pequeño jaleo, pero comprendedme,  estoy  un  día  antes del deadline de 
 la revista y no tengo tiempo para más.








 P=EL ANUNCIO DE LA COMPRA
 -----------------------
P8
*** Area: Mail Amiga Technologies                 Date: 11 Apr 96 13:10:45
*** From: Gilles Bourdin (2:999/99.9)
*** To  : Adam Hough (2:999/99.0)
*** Subj: Press information

MSGID: 2:999/99.9 316d5935
CHRS: LATIN-1 2
FMPT 9
INTL 2:999/99 2:999/99
PID: Spot 1.3a 163
To: adamh@spots.ab.ca

VISCORP USA AND ESCOM AG ANNOUNCE LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING FOR ACQUISITION
OF AMIGA TECHNOLOGIES BY VISCORP

Heppenheim, Germany and Chicago, IL, April 12, 1996 -- ESCOM AG, a German
computer manufacturer and reseller and Visual Information Services Corp.
(Nasdaq: VICP, Bulletin Board), a developer of interactive TV (ITV)
set-top-boxes to enhance television use and viewing by providing Internet
access and electronic communications function, today jointly announced that
a binding letter of understanding has been signed between the companies.

The letter states that Chicago-based VIScorp would acquire Amiga
Technologies, including the intellectual properties of the former Commodore
Business Machines, excepted Commodore trademarks. The transaction value is
approximately US $40 million. Terms were not disclosed, and the pending
acquisition would be subject to approval by both companies' boards of
directors.

"This intended acquisition is part of VIScorp's strategy to build market
leadership in the fast-growing field of ITV", said William Buck, Chief
Executive Officer. "As a result, we would own Amiga intellectual
properties, including several that are currently used in our set top-box,
Electronic Device (ED(). We would also have control over the supplied chip
sets used in ED as well as Amiga inventories and access to the company's
current sales and distribution channels."

Commenting the proposed acquisition, Helmut Jost, chief executive of ESCOM
AG, said: "VIScorp has a clear vision of the Amiga technology potential for
ITV applications. We are eager to support and work together over the term
of the letter of understanding to ensure a smooth transition between the
two companies. VIScorp anticipates the support of ongoing European sales of
popular models such as the A4000T and the A1200 as well as the current
developments and future releases of Amiga Technologies."

Petro Tyschtschenko, president of Amiga Technologies stated "I am looking
forward to being able to take advantage of the research and development
support potential that an Amiga-related company like VIScorp can provide."

Commenting that the primary objective of the proposed acquisition is to
give VIScorp full access to the Amiga technology to support development of
its ITV device, Mr. Buck noted: "Our intention is to rapidly develop and
begin manufacturing TV set-top interactive boxes -- products that give home
users capabilities such as telephone reception and dial up capabilities,
facsimile, video games, pay-per-view options, electronic mail, and access
to on-line services, including the Internet."

Product names mentioned herein may be trademarks and/or registered
trademarks of their respective companies.






 P=DISCURSO DE BILL BUCK
 ---------------------


    P8                                  
                       Bill Buck's Speech at Toulouse
                                      
             Speech held by William 'Bill' Buck, CEO, VIScorp
  
                    Bensheim 05/21/96, Toulouse 05/19/96
                                      
      Good morning Ladies and Gentlemen. Welcome to the Toulouse-Show.
                                      
        I want to emphasize that this Press Conference is a working
    conference. We asked you in the world of AMIGA shows to give us your
   ideas and your initiate us. We`ve had so many ideas that we've put in
   on the web site, and we had even more ideas. We had over 2000 e-mails
   that have been provided by users for the future of AMIGA. What we want
   to do here today, is we want to map out a strategy to you and we think
   the future of AMIGA to be and we want to make sure that you understand
   and we want to hear your ideas and your opportunity to participate in
   that future. So, I want to say before we began too much that excuse me
    for not answering, excuse us for not answering all your e-mail. You
   can imagine that we had millions and millions of e-mail messages that
    if there`s something that you would like us us to respond to that we
    haven`t responded to yet. You can be sure that I am responding to my
   e-mail as well as the rest of us now. In some cases Eric as an example
     has done a fantastic job, he personally answered over 2000 e-mail
     messages himself and Carl was probably on the record for good 1000
                              himself as well.
                                      
   I will try to speak slowly, I know I have got a funny American accent
     but so, I try to do that. First, I do apologize for the confusion
   about today. In the world of AMIGA show we`ve said that we will have a
    press conference in Germany around the end of the month. Because we
    had so many ideas come from you, in a community as a whole that said
   this kind of thing might be better, because we want to show the people
   and the press that we talking about what we are doing and we are doing
   what we`re doing. And so somehow on the process of that information I
    think we got a little confused and we still had some information on
     the AMIGA Technologies web site that was different than ours and I
      apologize for that, especially to the people on the German AMIGA
   community who I don`t want to feel excluded at all. We try to answer a
    lot of questions before we came here about what our intentions were
    for AMIGA. It`s our intention today to try to answer all the rest of
                     the questions that you might have.
                                      
     So I`d ask out of respect for everybody in the world to hold their
     questions until we get to that point of the presentation today. We
      want to give you as much information as we can, when I finish my
    conversation Raquel Valesco will give you the high points in French
    and in Spanish. Raquel stand up please. Raquel has been the driving
     force behind this conference that was her idea and the way it was
               organized and we proceeded was to her credit.
                                      
     We also have Eric Laffont, Eric stand up please. Eric really is an
   employee, he has business cards and please take one from him. And Eric
   really is the man who devises the survey and who implemented it and he
   did such a fantastic job answering all the e-mails. Thank you Eric. In
    addition to that, there was a staff of people very nervous who also
   helped physically support today .I really appreciate what they did for
     us. We have the rest of Viscorp Team here, we start here with Don
    Gilbreath, Carl Sassenrath, David Rosen and we have Curtiz Gangi, so
    here he is, and we have Petro Tyschtschenko and Stefan Haas. Okay .
                                      
     Let`s talk first about the AMIGA transaction. Okay, Bill Buck and
       Helmut Jost made a deal. It`s based on trust, it`s based on a
   handshake and it will probably based on this much paper when it`s all
     finished. Okay, It`s not finished. Okay, Bill Buck and Helmut Jost
    have a deal , and it`s done. Viscorp will be the owner of AMIGA. One
    more thing I like to say about this. Raquel and I last week were the
     guest of the New York Stock Exchange. And we stood in the member`s
     gallery with the treasury and the secretary of the New York Stock
   Exchange, the biggest capital market in the world. He told us that the
      reason why the Stock Exchange works is because two people have a
    trust. And trust is based on a "purple" agreement and for three days
    there`s nothing written. There`s no transaction. This agreement that
     Helmut Jost and I have at this point is we`ve waiting for this is
    based on trust and that's why we don`t feel uncomfortable with this
    meeting today, and that`s why I'm sure that this transaction will be
                                 completed.
                                      
      The second thing I like to say for the record is that Viscorp is
   committed to the future of the AMIGA computer. We`re committed to the
      AMIGA computer because we think the AMIGA computer represents a
       valuable choice to the market place and we believe it can be a
   profitable business. We think that means that we're gonna have to make
    some changes. We're gonna have to lever up the good things that have
   happened in the past and try to step beyond the things that everybody
     doesn't agree about. The difficulties that the platform has had in
   general don`t and we think we can do that and I will come back to that
       in a minute. Certainly, we believe in the operating system. We
    licensed it in December because we believe in the operating system.
   The fact that this opportunity was created for Viscorp because of the
     difficulties of ESCOM have anything to do with our believe in the
     operating system. We believe in the operating system. We think it
   still lives. The only multimedia and multitasking operating system in
    the world in our opinion. The second thing is and probably the most
     important thing is we believe in you. We believe in the community.
    Without a community of people like AMIGA has AMIGA will be just like
    everybody else. You guy are fanatics ! You can believe the thousands
     of e-mail messages I got. We asked you for your ideas at the AMIGA
     show and we were amazed by how many ideas came back to us. It was
   overwhelming. So, what we realized is that there is a future for AMIGA
     that absolutely no doubt about it like any development community.
    There had to be support, but this was going to be a little different
     in this case. Your ideas from everything you can imagine and we`re
   gonna take advantage of all those ideas. The first step we wanna make
     to you, the community, is that we are ready to listen. We think we
    demonstrated that we have the capacity to do that and that it's not
    our intention to change in that respect at all. The second thing we
    want to share with you are the results of our survey. We think it`s
   very vital information and we intend to do that on our website. That's
      in fact how we intend to get a lot of information to you in the
     future. We hope in the next few weeks to post documentation on the
   website that will support you. We know that there are people who can`t
     find this vital documentation that they need to do the things they
     want. We`re gonna try to get back and use our website as our best
     means of communication to the community. You can't imagine all the
    different places in the world that we're talking to people about us.
                                      
     We have a clear vision for what we want to do in the future and we
    believe we can support that vision. Let me just say from the outset
   that we think that in 1997 there will be more AMIGAs sold than we ever
   had been before. Most of those AMIGAs are gonna be our products and in
     products. It`s not gonna happen because little Viscorp makes them,
       it`s gonna happen because big companies decide to license the
    technology and put technology into existing products that they have.
    In the next few weeks there will be an announcement from us about a
    big company that makes TV-sets. We`re gonna put these things inside
   the TV set. First, as we get ready to talk about the ED and I'm sorry
    to say that we just have the ED in NTSC-version today because we had
   to develop our own operating system in the beginning which Carl wrote
    too by the way. It only works in this environment right now. That`s
    the great thing about AMIGA, it works in all the other environments.
   You`ll be able to see that product very shortly, but today we want to
              show you our ED, in black and white only, sorry.
                                      
     Two things to remember here: The first thing is with all you AMIGA
   guys, we know you have a great imagination, so pretend it`s in color.
   The second thing is that television technology hasn't changed in four
      years. It's a great thing about what we are proposing to do. The
   computer changes every week, there`s a faster processor, there`s more
   memory and there`s a new version of windows 95, it takes 95 megabytes.
   There`s lots of different things that are happening. This environment
    hasn`t changed. It`s a stable environment. It`s a very fertile field
    for us to do something, fantastic things. One thing I would like to
   say before I get into the little demonstration of our ED. The past is
   the past, okay, I don't care about what happened before. This is a new
   deal. Don`t whine on me about this or that. Look, I know that I`m not
   talking to you people because you are here on sunday morning but there
   are a lot of people in the community that are still upset about things
     that happened before. This is something new. We`re going forward,
   we`re going to demonstrate it every step of the way we`re going to go.
    That as an example that there are specific things that when we know
                      we`re gonna do we will tell you.
                                      
   I can tell you right now a walker before Christmas, I don't think so,
   okay. I think there may be some other company that may decide: It was
   a good idea. Okay, we don`t have a power PC port ready for Christmas.
      We got to do something, we have parts and hardware that can take
    advantage of the OS. We got to show these people that we are moving
    Great idea, it`s a prototype. Somebody wants to pick up the ball and
     run with it. We`re ready to try to support that person. And in the
         same way, still even this month there were people at AMIGA
   Technologies that were talking about the walker being introduced this
   year. All I can say is that this person in particular doesn't work at
   AMIGA Technologies anymore. There are a lot of people that don't work
   at AMIGA Technologies anymore. The ones that we feel have something to
   add to what we`re doing in the future are still there and work silent
   about then. And we have to put all that stuff behind us. That was just
                             a little example.
                                      
   Now what is Viscorp going to do for AMIGA? First thing is, we're gonna
    introduce a new operating system by the fourth quarter. If there are
    companies on the high end that have an interest in porting over the
     AMIGA OS to another processor, maybe the power PC. We're happy to
   support those people. No problem. We think there's another solution to
   this. We've been in conversations with DEC about the Alpha Chip, that
    can do 300 megahertz right now. We think that might be the right way
   to really boost the video. I think that`s something that we are going
   to be working on and you might see something about that in the middle
    of 1997. Also on the low end we have our products. Our products are
    ready. We're gonna talk to you about them later. These things can be
    adapted in certain ways that can add new functionality to the A1200
   level products. And we think there are some ways so that we can tweak
    the A1200 too. Or we can speed up the bus or something like that to
   help us get the chipsets to work a little faster. We think we can do a
   lot of things and that's why we wanna hear from you people because we
       think you might have ideas we don't know about. And we want to
   leverage off those. We're happy to let you participate in those idea`s
    success.Okay. So, before I start talking about the ED, I`m going to
     ask Raquel to cover the main points in French and Spanish, just to
    make sure we're all together before we go to the next step. Raquel,
                                  please.
                                      
    Thanks very much to Simone Pawletzki for listening very carefully to
   the tape and typing it all. Thanks to Christoph Guelicher for helping,
        deciphering, guessing and contributing to the missing parts.
                                      
                                  CONTACT:
                                      
                               www.vistv.com
                                      
                Amiga is a registered trademark of ESCOM AG
                                      

P= VISCORP EVALUA EL AMIGA
 -----------------------
                                      
   P8  June 19, 1996 - Chicago, IL USA
     
VISCORP VALUES THE AMIGA

  System Improvements
  
     In the months ahead, VIScorp will be making substantial
     improvements to the Amiga system architecture, including both the
     hardware design and the operating system software. These advanced
     new systems will be developed not only for our upcoming Set Top
     Boxes, but also for future Amiga Desk Top Computers. VIScorp is
     investing considerable resources into engineering these
     improvements.
     
     One of the primary objectives of VIScorp's business plan is to
     develop, manufacture, market, and sell Amiga Desk Top Computer
     Systems.
     
  Architecture Group
  
     Many of the above improvements require an in-depth knowledge of
     specialty markets and technologies. Because of this, VIScorp made
     the decision in May 1996 to form an Architectural Design Group
     consisting of a small number of highly qualified Amiga experts.
     While this group is still in its early formation stage, we intend
     it to oversee and resolve the numerous suggestions and enhancements
     that must be addressed for the long term success of the Amiga.
     
  Technology Licenses
  
     As stated above, VIScorp will research and develop valuable
     enhancements to the architecture and technology of the Amiga,
     resulting in a wide range of next generation, price competitive
     computer products.
     
     There are, however, situations in which it makes sense for VIScorp
     to license Amiga related technology to qualified companies whose
     business objectives are consistent with VIScorp's long range plan.
     Such agreements may include binary, ROM, and documentation licenses
     for the distribution of Amiga OS upgrades, hardware and software
     system licenses for specialty markets, and possibly source code
     co-development licenses to help expand the Amiga and its feature
     set into the next decade.
     
  Property Rights Infringement
  
     It has come to our attention that several companies plan to build
     their own "compatible" or "extended" versions of the Amiga without
     obtaining the proper licensing from VIScorp. These companies will
     be placing themselves at legal risk, because their systems will
     undoubtedly infringe on Amiga intellectual property rights,
     including copyrights, patents, and trade secrets.
     
     In addition, we have recently become aware that versions of the
     Amiga System ROMs are being reproduced and distributed without
     proper licensing. This is a violation of international copyright
     law, and VIScorp will prosecute offenders to the full extent of the
     law.
     
     Realize that VIScorp is purchasing Amiga Technologies at great
     expense for ownership of precisely the above property rights and
     considers them a fundamental asset of the company. As such, VIScorp
     intends to aggressively defend its position as the owner of the
     Amiga and its related technologies. Companies that choose to
     violate the law are well advised to consider the easier and less
     costly path of obtaining a license.
     
     

 P=LA VENTA FINAL
 --------------

P8
             ESCOM AG sells Amiga Technologies GmbH to VIScorp
                                      
       From the Amiga Technologoies web site at http://www.amiga.de/
                                      
                 Bochum/Heppenheim/Chicago, June 21, 1996.
                                      
   ESCOM AG and Visual Information Service Corp. (VIScorp- Nasdaq: VICP),
     have now signed the final agreement about the acquisition of Amiga
     Technologies GmbH by VIScorp, subject to approval by their boards.
     According to the agreement, the entire staff and property of ESCOM
    subsidiary Amiga Technologies GmbH will pass into the possession of
    VIScorp. This includes all existing components and finished goods in
      inventory of Amiga and the intellectual properties of the former
    Commodore group, except Commodore trademarks. The purchase price is
              approximately US $40 million in stock and cash.
                                      
      VIScorp's products, the Universal Internet Television Interface
    (UITI), the Electronic Device (ED), the UITI-TV and the ED-TV (smart
     television systems), are powered by Amiga custom chip-sets and the
      Amiga operating system and offer a means by which TV viewers can
     bridge the separate worlds of the television, computing and tele-
                              communications.
                                      
   Amiga Technologies GmbH will continue to coordinate the production and
      distribution of Amiga computers at its headquaters in Bensheim,
                                  Germany.
                                      
    Additional information on VIScorp and its technologies are available
               through its Web site at http://www.vistv.com/.
                                      
                          For further information:
                                      
            ESCOM AG, Dr. Bernd Wirsing, Tel.: +49-6252-709-193
    Amiga Technologies GmbH, Petro Tyschtschenko, Tel.: +49-6251-802-110
              VIScorp, Florine Radulovic, Tel.: +1-312655-0903
                                      
      Thanks to Christoph Gülicher, for supplying this press release.
                                      
     _________________________________________________________________
