Introduction

Welcome to World Of Amiga. The brand new Amiga Diskmag, which relates
to everything Amiga. Anyway, enough of such rubbish. This issue was
delayed considerably by the fact that my hard disk broke, meaning I
had to start the issue from scratch just 7 DAYS from the release date!
Luckily, I had a copy of disksalv handy and could salvage some of the
articles, but others were lost forever and I had to write a lot of the
issue from scratch.

Anyway, in this debut issue, we have got some news about the future
Amiga operating system which sounds very exciting, so go see the news
section. We have also got some special sections for you people to 
help us with, such as the 'X' of the year award 1998.

Let me introduce myself. I am Neil Bullock, of Trogladite Software.
Trogsoft has been running since 1995 and as such, next issue will
be our birthday special. I have made several products for the Amiga,
but, naturally, all those were subject to my hard disk failure.

I have made some larger products too, which are still in production.
Our newest one being 'SecOS', which is a pseudo operating system meant
to keep computers secure. It is really meant for the educational
places (namely, schools) around the place, but anyone can use it.

We are part of 'The Resistance' and if you are not already part of it,
I urge you to become part of it. Please see the relevant article on
the index pages for more information. I am also involved in a strategic
alliance with Leon Brown at Amorphous who is well on his way to making
a new educational title for the Amiga, which SecOS will be perfect for
use with.

Finally, I have been offered the chance of publishing some of my
future products with Crystal Software (of Dark Millenia fame), but that
will come After SecOS 1 because I intend to handle that by myself to
see how publishing a product feels :) If anyone wants to know my Amiga
setup, then it is an A1200, CD-ROM, 18MB RAM, '030 MMU processor and
loads of other crap :)

You will be seeing some things from Amorphous in this issue of the
diskmag, such as his Work In Progress about his current products, and
on our webpage, you can see more Amorphous related things. We are really
an internet only magazine, but for those of you who obtained this from
a CD-ROM or other place, you can write to me. But don't expect a reply
because I don't really have time for that. I will, however, reply to
most Emails, personally.

Trogladite Software
81 Doncaste Road
Selby
North Yorkshire
YO8 9BU
ENGLAND

World Of Amiga (WOA) also has another staff member, and he is called
Antony Pieroni. However, since this is a male dominated magazine, and
according to one Amiga Format survey, the entire Amiga world is male
dominated, we would love some female writers to add to our team.

Get on and read the rest of the mag... It's much more interesting...

CONTACTS:

woa@trogsoft.freeserve.co.uk
(If you want a list of available subject headings, then just send a 
blank email to this address with no subject line and you will be
sent an automatic email with a list of subjects).

www.trogsoft.freeserve.co.uk
(this address supersedes anything other address in the mag)
