News

New Amiga OS

Amiga Inc has teamed up with QNX to bring us a better OS for the next
generation of Amiga's. But what will be in this new OS?

Next Generation Targeted Features 
Operating System Core Features

     Scalable and modular design 
     Fully Protected Preemptive Multitasking; with processes
       and threads 
     Efficient and compact OS (under 4MBs) 
     Full 32 bit 
     True RTOS 
     Virtual Memory support 
     ROM-able 
     Multi Processor support 
     Distributed processing support 
     Open standards architecture 
     Support for industry standard API's 

Multimedia 

     High performance 3D (Open GL) 
     Full 24-bit true color 
     Support standard TV, SVGA and resolutions up to HDTV 
     Multi-Media Gaming centric 
     Real-time animation (audio/video/graphics) 
     Internet/Networking 
     Network centric architecture 
     High performance Internet solutions 
     Full Java support 
     Consumer networking 

Convergence 

     Support new digital interface standards 
     Amiga convergence API's where no standards exist 
     Support leading convergence processing hardware 

Hey, Don't Ask Us!
------------------

Q: Should Amiga developers start programming for QNX now? 

A: No. While QNX is the foundation OS, Amiga in partnership
with QNX will add user interface enhancements, more multimedia
support and a host of other convergence features. This will be
released through Amiga Inc's developers program. 

Q: Will I have to re-write my application to run on Next
Generation Amiga's? 

A: Yes. The new OS has a programming model that is similar to
the Classic Amiga's, but also sufficiently different. In particular, the
new OS features processes and threads (a "thread" is like an
Amiga Process/Task), virtual memory and a very clean
microkernel architecture. All access to hardware is through
drivers, so if your application "hits the hardware" it will not work.
Most well written applications should be able to be ported, but to
take full advantage of the new architecture you will want to take
advantage of the new APIs. We also intend to offer significantly
better development tools than are currently available for the
classic, which should ease the transition. 

Q: How about my Classic applications? Will they run? 

A: For the Development System, we are investigating either an
"Amiga Classic PCI card" or an "Amiga Classic Emulator".
Therefore well behaved 3.1/3.5 Amiga Classic applications should
work. 

