{center}
{subhead}OS 3.9{def}{p}
Review by Robert Karlsson
{left}
{p} {p}
This month we'll begin with the christmas present of the year, the
long awaited Amiga OS 3.9. And to begin with we'll take a little look
on what the CD say we'll get; OS 3.9 comes with an array of, rather
well known, multimedia programs, such as an MP3 player in form of
Amplifier 2.21, a brand new version. Amplifier, being the best
audioplayer there is, if you ask me. Amplifier functions superbly
with its DSP decoding, as usual. The only thing I miss is a little
better ID-3 tag selection. Hopefully that will change soon, though.
In the "multimedia array" there are also an AVI, QT and MOV
videoformat player, which seems to work pretty good, but then again,
wthout PPC it's not very funny to watch films at all to begin with.
And in case you don't have any films to try it out with the CD is
nearly crammed with videos (trailers mostly).
{p} {p}
As usual when it comes to new OS upgrades for the Amiga there is a
new version of AWeb, 3.4 SE. This version is limited, but it still
has enough features to get you on the net. New for OS 3.9 is also the
Genesis TCP/IP stack, uncippled fortunately. Genesis is a very good
and versatile TCP/IP stack, there's also a new version of Warp OS,
new Shell (using VinCED), search options, new PPC optimised picture
datatype as well as improved and (mostly) new versions of a great
amount of already known software. And as a little extra bonus you get
a song (CDDA) by the well known Amiga techno musicians Annex, I
haven't listened to this one, though, as it's not exactly any music I
prefer listening to, but still, it's a nice thing to put in there!
This track would be perfect to try out with the new CDPlayer as well
- following the pattern of so many other players this one is
"skinnable", and I think this one is the best CDDA player for the
Amiga.
{p} {p}
Installing OS 3.9 is a simple task, and as long as you know what sort
of Amiga you have, and has all the necessary hardware and software
required, of course, you shouldn't have any problems successfully
installing OS 3.9. You can either update 3.5 to 3.9, or 3.1 to 3.9,
so there's no need to go buy 3.5 first. The 3.5 to 3.9 installation
is recomended taking place after the creation of an emergency boot
disk, I decided to play it safe and do just that. At first glance
after the install shows little new, there is however one thing that
now occupies your Workbench that catches the eye. The AmiDOCK, which
bears some ressemblence to ToolManager, naturally, I had to examine
this one at once (since I am nuts about these sort of programs)! What
first made me think I was experiencing some sort of hallucination was
in fact the new "icon style" of 3.9, Flash icons, I found this to be
unecessary and quite annoying, to be frank, but then again I didn't
fancy Glow icons much when they first arrived as part of the Amiga OS
either, and should you find yourself having epileptic seizures from
these flashing icons you can always turn them off in the preferences.
It might be worth mentioning that 3.9 also have a little nifty thing
with animated icons, however, Dopus and ScalOS does not support this
yet, but I can imagine it's a pretty nice new feature!
{p} {p}
The preferences for AmiDOCK shows the different "docks" available, where
you can add or remove new docks. Next to those options there are the
"categories", where you can tinker with the default dock, delete it,
or add new ones (you choose the category you want to with a little
arrow at the top of the border of the program). It didn't strike me
at first that this is in fact quite an usable little program. Only
thing that annoys me with it is that you can't, for some strange
reason, use any other way than dragging and dropping the programs you
want to be able to launch. AmiDOCK does have a little tendency of
looking very blobby, even if you have pretty high resolution, it
would have been nice to see some sort of re-scaling option for the
icons- or being able to use other images instead of the program icon
itself. OS 3.9 also comes with updated versions of other programs
necessary to have a good Workbench environment, new HD ToolBox for
instance and some other things.
{p} {p}
The manual, being entirely in HTML format, is very big and
comprehensive, as far as I can tell it deals with all you need to
know, from the basics to the some of the little more advanced
features. The layout however, it's good, but I think it could be a
little better. The chapters are a little strangely laid out I think,
but after a little while you get used to it. Also, a printed manual
is always better, if you ask me. It's however excellent for
reference. Some sort of search option within the manual would be nice
to have, though.
{p} {p}
Finally, the overall rating of OS 3.9 doesn't add up to such a high
score as I really would have wanted to give it, because this feels
mostly like a small upgrade, and quite frankly, I think I would have
survived using plain old 3.1, but that's beside the point, the point
is that in case you don't already have a nicely configured working
environment, OS 3.9 push you a little further in the right direction
with it's improved archiving/dearchiving system. I think this would
be a good supplement for the beginner or less experienced Amiga user
(it probably has alot better PPC support, at least that's what I've
been told, I can however not rate it at that, since I have no PPC
board). I suspect that it tries to appeal to those, as well as to new
Amiga users, and looking at it in that respect it succeeds in being
quite a good supplement to these users, therefore I think it should
be rated as such. And of course, is there any reason at all why you
shouldn't buy any new OS upgrade?
{p} {p}
{bold}Available from{nobold}: Amiga and Amiga outlets
{p} {p}
{bold}Overall{nobold}: 85%
