Archives

I had this idea to take a look at various software archives for different
platforms a few days ago, and I've been doing some research on two
different ones. We're going to take a look at the PC Freely Distributable
software archive 'Tucows' and the Amiga FD software archive 'Aminet'.

Now it's obvious which I'm going to favour because I prefer the Amiga,
so Aminet is going to be one I like most. However, both have their
advantages and disadvantages.

Tucows (www.tucows.com) is very graphical. It's got a much more up-to
date interface when compared to Aminet. It uses pictures all over the
place, which is both good and bad. If you've got a fast internet
connection, then it's all well and good. You can easily and quickly
download the images and see them with no noticable delay. To those
of you who use a slow connection, you will be waiting for a while
for all the images to load. Aminet uses just one image in total which
is very helpful.

Tucows is nowhere near as big as Aminet. Both of the archives have
mirrors all over the world, but Aminet has a more useful interface.
Each upload which goes on Aminet needs a .readme file which contains
various fields in it. The first line must contain the word 'Short:'
and then a 40 character or less description of the archive. This
appears next to the archive when downloading so you can see what the
file is. If you click on the description, you see the whole .readme
file which the author made.

Tucows is organised into different software categories. Internet,
Music etc. Aminet is also organised into different sections and uses
a simple text interface which is much faster. You select a directory
(say 'docs') and you get a listing of the directory. Usually, this
is just more directories, so select another one (eg, 'mag/') and
you will be given a listing of everything in there (docs/mag contains
Diskmags, like WOA :)

Tucows has a very useful ratings feature where each software product
is awarded a certain star rating (well, cow rating) which helps you
decide what to download. Aminet has no such ratings system (except on
the music mods section).

Aminet produces a CD of all new uploads every 2 months. There is
approximately 1Gig (compressed) on each CD which means that there's
around 26GB of software on Aminet, which is quite a lot :)

Aminet has a search engine so you can look for files. I don't know if
Tucows has one or not. Aminet also allows users to rate the software
they download and the ratings go into a file (Charts) which also
contains the most downloaded software of the week and the best rated
software of the week.

Finally, some Aminet mirrors for you to visit:

Uk Mirror    - http://uk.aminet.net/~aminet
Main US Site - http://wuarchive.wustl.edu/~aminet

To upload to Aminet, send your FTP client to wuarchive.wustl.edu and
go to pub/aminet/new and upload to there.

