9
1*
{1AMIGAN KÄYTTÄJÄT, OSA 2

Huom! Teksti on englanniksi, kirjoittaja on David Tiberio.
  
    ABC
  
          ABC Sports 1992 Olympic Games.
            Live Amiga generated instant overlays.
  
          "Young Indiana Jones Chronicles", Emmy Award,
          Special Visual Effects.

    Athletics
  
          Athletics Stadiums.
            Atlanta Braves Sports Display.
            BC Place Stadium video displays in Vancouver, Canada.
            California Angels Anaheim Stadium.
            Cotton Bowl.
            Dallas Mavericks Reunion Arena's Scoreboard.
            Florida Marlins Joe Robbie Stadium Event Scoreboard.
            Harlem Globtrotters events.
            Miami Dolphins Jumbotron.
            Philadelphia Phillies Scoreboard and Phanavision.
            Portland Trailblazers, Portland Oregon, sporting events.
  
          Atlanta Georgia 1996 Olympics Planning Board.
  
          Chelsea Soccer Club, England, sponsored by Commodore UK.
  
  
    Awards

          "Babylon 5", Emmy Award Winning Movie, Warner Bros., 1993.
  
          Cox Cable Productions, New Orleans, LA.
            ACE Award nomination for Sports Productions.
  
          NewTek, Inc., of Topeka Kansas.
            Emmy Award winner for developments in television engineering.
            Creator of the Video Toaster and the Screamer.
  
          "Panama Deception", Oscar Award Winning "Best Documentary Film".
  
          "Young Indiana Jones Chronicles", Emmy Award, Special Visual Effects.

  
    Cable Television
  
          Brookhaven Cable, Long Island, New York.
            Prevue Guide, Real Estate Channel, Classified Ads Channel.
  
          Comedy Central Cable Network.
            Video Toaster generated overlays and graphics.

          Cox Cable Productions, New Orleans, LA.
            ACE Award nomination for sports productions.
            Still store of basketball players.
            Online CG for remote live EFP events, basketball, football,
            telethons.


    Corporations and Government

          ABC, American Broadcasting Company.

          American Cablevision.

          Atlanta Georgia 1996 Olympics Planning Board.
            Previsualization, storyboarding, and advertising.

          BC Hydro, Vancouver, Canada.
            Interactive video displays.

          Brookhaven Cable in Long Island, New York.

          Brooklyn Queens Cable, Brooklyn, New York.
            Pay Per View.

          Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, CBC Broadcast Center in Toronto.
            Information Kiosks, for finding studios and offices.

          Ford Motor Company, in automobile assembly plants (InfoChannel).

          InfoChannel, Scala Inc..

          International Business Machines.
            Multimedia displays.

          Israeli Air Force.
            Amiga generated flight simulators for pilot training.

          JPL, technology and astronomy lab.
            Distant Suns, astronomy software.

          LILCO, Long Island Lighting Company, New York.
            Corporate training videos.

          NASA, National Aeronautics and Space Association.
            AmiLink control systems.

          NBC, National Broadcasting Company.

          NewTek, Inc., of Topeka Kansas.
            Creator of the Video Toaster and the Screamer.
            Emmy Award winner for developments in television engineering.

          Nuclear Electric, Ipswich.
            Amiga controlled MCR simulator for Sizewell B Control Room.

          Pay Per View.
            Amiga generated video sequences.

          PBS, Public Broadcasting System.
            Various television series.

          Prevue Networks of Tulsa, Oklahoma.
            Creaters of Prevue Guide.

          St. Clair Interactive Communications.
            K-Mart Coupon Center.
            SEATS Theater Seat Booking System.

          TCI cable television.

          Toaster Marmalade of California.

          United Video of Tulsa, Oklahoma.
            Makers of Prevue Guide.

          Universal Studios.

          VIDIGraphic.

          Virtuality.
            Dactyl Nightmare, virtual reality coin-op game.

          Walt Disney Productions.
            Animated movies and television series.

          Warner Bros., motion picture company.
            "Animaniacs", animated cartoon television series.
            "Babylon 5", motion picture, television series.


    ESPN

          ESPN's "Fly Fishing Video Magazine".


    Events
  
          Friendship Games, Kuwait.
  
          Pan American Games.
  
          "Phantom of the Opera" at the Pantages, Toronto, Canada.
            Controls audio effects.
  
          IBM OS/2 Multimedia Presentation at CEBIT, Hannover.
            Using InfoChannel multimedia software.
  
  
    Exhibits
  
          Amiga Expo Mexico.
  
          Epcot Center Interactive Displays.
  
          BC Hydro multimedia exhibit in Vancouver, Canada.
  
          Bit.Movie computer art competition in Riccione, Italy.
  
          IPISA, Incontro dei Programmatori Italiani per lo Sviluppo Amiga.
  
          Mac World Expo.
            Apple Computer video wall demonstrations.
  
          Science World video display in Vancouver, Canada.
  
          World of Commodore-Amiga Show
            New York City, New York.
            Pasadena, California.
            Sidney, Australia.
            Toronto, Canada.

    HBO

          HBO, Home Box Office.
            "Afterburn" flight scenes by Toaster Marmalade of California.

    IBM

          OS/2 Multimedia Presentation at CEBIT, Hannover.
            Scala multimedia software.
          Minnessota Mainframe Site Multimedia Presentations.
            Scala multimedia software.

    Kiosks and OEM

          Amiga.Physik.Unizh.Ch
            Internet FTP site supported by Amiga 3000UX.
            Founding host site of Aminet mirrors.
            Supervised by Urban D Mueller.

          Australian international airports (InfoChannel).

          Arcade Coin-Up Video Games.
            Mad Dog McCree, laser disc based video game.
              Controlled by a genlock-equipped Amiga 500.
            Magic Johnson's Basketball.

          Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, CBC Broadcast Center in Toronto.
            Information Kiosks, for finding studios and offices.

          CD32, CD based game console.
            First 32-BIT game console.
            Introduced July 1993.
            Based on the AGA chipset as found in the Amiga 120u0.

           CDTV, CD based interactive multimedia player.
             First CD based multimedia player.
            Introduced 6 months before CD-I.
            Based on the OCS chipset as found in the Amiga 500.

          Consumer paint color coding service, used at hardware stores.

          Design Mirage's Kodak Film Racing Team.

         Expandaview Videowall System, Optinocal Ltd. of England.
            Point of Sale and Point of Information systems.
            "Graphic Master".
            "Studio VIP Plus".

          Franklin Mill Outlet Mall, Philladelphia, Pennsylvania.
            Information booths.

          London Transport Museum Interactive Displays.
            109 CD32 consoles.
            Networked kiosks developed by Index Information.

          Martinez California County District Attorney's Office.
            Database of Delinquent Parents, using NewTek Video Toasters.

          Me TV, Video Karaoke, Media Image Productions.

          Oceana Naval Air Station in Virgina Beach, Virginia (InfoChannel).

          POST In Store Advertising Network for Supermarkets.

          SEGA Genesis software development systems.
            Amiga 500 based expansion boards for game development.

          User Interface Technologies "Media Magician", home control system.

          Videoplex Tour of Alaska.

          Video Toaster Workstations by NewTek of Topeka, Kansas.
            Amiga based systems with Video Toaster expansion board.

          VIDIGraphic's McDonalds' Drive-Thru Video Displays.

    Movies

        Feature Films

          "City Slickers", motion picture, starring Billy Crystal.

          "Fantastic Four: The Movie", motion picture.

          "Freejack", feature film, starring Emilio Estevez.
            Lightwave generated animation of main character's race car.
            Video Toaster generated time-warp displays.
            Graphics created by Joe Conti.

          "Honey, I Blew Up the Baby".
            Effects produced by Anti-Gravity Workshop.

          "Hot Shots, Part Deux", motion picture.

          "Jurassic Park", previsualization by Amblin Imaging.

          "Mouth of Madness", directed by John Carpenter.

          "Necronomicon", feature film.

          "Panama Deception", Oscar Award Winning "Best Documentary Film".

          "Sidekicks", starring Chuck Norris.

          "Star Trek VI", feature film.
            Lightwave generated graphics by Joe Conti.
            USS Enterprise and USS Excelsior modeled by Allen Hastings.

          "Three Men and A Baby".
            Amiga character generation and titling by Rick Probst.

          "Total Recall", motion picture.

          "Warlock", produced by Trimark.

          "Wayne's World II", starring Dana Carvey and Mike Myers.
            Produced by Paramount Pictures.

        Television Movies

          "Afterburn".
            Home Box Office Presentations.
            Flight scenes by Toaster Marmalade of California.

          "Babylon 5", Emmy Award Winning Movie, Warner Bros., 1993.

          "The Dark Half".
            Stephen King television movie.
            Character effects by Everett Burrell.

          "Max Headroom", motion picture and television series.

          "seaQuest DSV", Irvin Kirschner (director), Universal Studios,
            1993. Starring Roy Scheider.
            Effects produced by Amblin Imaging and 60 Video Toasters.
            More special effects than "The Empire Strikes Back".

          "Tommyknockers".
            Stephen King television movie.
            Morphing sequences using ASDG's MorphPlus, by The Post Group.

          "Young Indiana Jones Chronicles", Emmy Award, Special Visual
          Effects.

    MTV

          Bee Gees, using NewTek Video Toaster animated sequences.

          Billy Idol.

          Rick Finn.

          Todd Rundgren.
            "Change Myself", music video.
            "Fascist Christ", music video.
            "Property", music video.
            "Theology", music video.

          ZZ Top.


    NBC

          "Amazing Stories".

          "Quantum Leap".
            Morph effects produced by The Post Group using MorphPlus.

          "seaQuest DSV".
            Video Toaster effects created by Amblin Imaging.

          "This Country's Rockin'", television special.

          "Unsolved Mysteries".
            Video Toaster effects created by Joe Conti.


    NewTek

          Lightwave 3D, 3D modeling software.

          Screamer rendering system for Lightwave 3D.

          Video Toaster and the Video Toaster 4000.
            Personal video production system.


    PBS

          "Ghost Writer", television series.

          "My Secret Identity", television series.

          "Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego", PBS & Walt Disney
           Productions.


    People

          Andy Warhol, painter (deceased).
  
          Arthur C. Clarke, science fiction author.
            "The Hammer of God".
            "Ghost from the Grand Banks".
  
          Bela Fleck and the Flecktones.
            "Three Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", graphics by Bob Anderson.
  
          Betty Boo, musician.
            Amiga used in production of her first album.
            Amiga used as a sequencer in her first tour.
  
          Billy Idol, musician.
            NewTek Video Toaster.
            Amiga generated video walls.
  
          Brad Carvey, brother of Dana Carvey.
            An original designer of the NewTek Video Toaster.
  
          Joe Rockhopper, Area52 spokesmodel.
  
          Matt Groening, creator of "The Simpsons".
  
          Penn Jillette, Magician/Comedian (of Penn and Teller).
  
          Star Trek: The Next Generation actors.
            Carel Struycken, "Mr. Homn".
            Wil Wheaton, "Ensign Wesley".
  
          Steven Spielberg, motion picture director.
            "Jurassic Park", previsualization by Amblin Imaging.
            "seaQuest DSV", special effects, underwater craft.
  
          Todd Rundgren, musician.
            "Change Myself", music video.
            "Fascist Christ", music video.
            "Property", music video.
            "Theology", music video.
  
  
    Production Studios
  
          Amblin Imaging.
            Creator of "seaQuest DSV" special effects.
            "Jurassic Park" previsualization presentations.

          Foundation Imaging, California.
            Creator of "Babylon 5" special effects.
  
  
    Public Access
  
          Public Access Programming.
            "Cyberspace 3D", in Portland, Oregon.
  
  
    Schools
  
          College of Saint Rose in Albany, New York.
  
          Olympia High School of Olympia, Washington, desktop video production.

          State University of New York
            Albany, Mathematics Department.
            Oswego, Graphics Department.
  
          Tulsa Junior College of Oklahoma, desktop video production.
            Desktop Video Production Associates Degree.
            Two year degree on using the Amiga and the Video Toaster.

          Walton High School, Marietta, Georgia.


    Television

        Commercials

          1992 Olympic Games promotional advertisements.

          Encyclopedia Brittanica commercials.
            Amiga 2000 used as prop computer.

          Pay Per View.
            Amiga generated video sequences.


        Movies

          "Afterburn".
            Home Box Office Presentations.
            Flight scenes by Toaster Marmalade of California.

          "Babylon 5", Emmy Award Winning Movie, Warner Bros., 1993.
            All computer graphics generated on Amiga computers.
            Lightwave 3D generated scenes of space ships.

          "The Dark Half".
            Stephen King television movie.
            Character effects by Everett Burrell.

          "Max Headroom", motion picture and television series.
            Amiga generated background displays.

          "seaQuest DSV", Irvin Kirschner (director), Universal Studios, 1993.
            Starring Roy Scheider.
            Effects produced by Amblin Imaging and 60 Video Toasters.
            More special effects than "The Empire Strikes Back".

          "Tommyknockers".
            Stephening television movie.
            Morphing sequences using ASDG's MorphPlus, by The Post Group.

          "Young Indiana Jones Chronicles", Emmy Award, Special Visual Effects.


        Programs

          "Amazing Stories", television series, NBC.

          "Animaniacs", animated television series by Warner Bros.

          "Babylon 5", science fiction television show by Warner Bros., 1993.
            Emmy Award winning show, special effects.
            Created by Foundation Imaging in California.

          "Clarissa Explains it All", Nickelodeon.

          "Cyberspace 3D", public access programming in Portland, Oregon.

          "The Edge" promotional commercial.
            Produced by Digital Fantasy.
            Amusement park ride in California.

          "Entertainment Tonight", entertainment news magazine.

          "Goof Troop", animated television series, Walt Disney Productions.

          "Miami Vice", television series.
            Amiga 1000's and video displays used as props.

          "Montel Williams Show", daytime talk show.

          "My Secret Identity", television series, PBS.

          "Mysteries Beyond the Other Dominion", SciFi Channel.
            Produced by Toaster Marmalade of California.

          "Neighbors", Australian television soap opera.

          "Nick Arcade", Nickelodeon.

          "Quantum Leap".
            Morph effects produced by The Post Group using MorphPlus.

          "Robocop", television series.
            Graphics created with Lightwave 3D.

          "Roboflight", SciFi Channel.

          "Rush Limbaugh", political satirist.

          "Prisoners of Gravity", TVOntario.

          "seaQuest DSV", NBC.
            Starring Roy Scheider.
            Effects produced by Amblin Imaging and 60 Video Toasters.

          "Tail Spin", animated television series, Walt Disney Productions.

          "Total Panic", Nickelodeon.
            Mandala interactive video walls.

          "Unsolved Mysteries".
            Video Toaster effects created by Joe Conti.

          "Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego", PBS & Walt Disney
           Productions.

          "Wild Side", Nickelodeon.

        Specials

          "45th Annual Primetime Emmy Awards"
            Video Toaster effects created by the Post Group.

          Advertising Club of New York's Annual Awards Ceremony.

          American Music Awards.

          Showtime's "World Class Kickboxing Championships".

          "This Country's Rockin'", documentary about America, NBC.

        Stations

          900 NBC Television Stations.
            WSTM 3 in Syracuse, New York.
            Atlantic City, New Jersey.

          American Cablevision.

          Brookhaven Cable in Long Island, New York.

          Brooklyn Queens Cable, Brooklyn, New York.
            Pay Per View.

          Nickelodeon.

          SciFi Channel.

          TCI cable television.


    Virtual Reality

          BattleTech Center, virtual reality games in Chicago, Illinois.
            Amiga generated graphics.

          Dactyl Nightmare, virtual reality arcade game by Virtuality.
            Amiga generated graphics and system control.

            Compilation Copyright 1993 Area52. All Rights Reserved.
            Freely Distributable and reprinted here with permission.


    David is actively searching for more and more uses of the Amiga computer!
    When submitting additional information, be as detailed as possible.
    Please provide as much detail as you can based upon the parties involved,
    their location in the world, and what software and hardware was used!
    Most importantly, he wants to build the list of local TV stations that
    use the Amiga.

        Please send any updates or corrections to:

                Area52 c/o David Tiberio
                6 Lodge Lane
                East Setauket, NY 11733
                (516) 476-1615
                dtiberio@libserv1.ic.sunysb.edu
