Plan for "Happy Birthday to you" Application
by Joe Solinsky

Purpose: This application will cause the Amiga computer to sing a common
folk song and exit when the song is complete.  There is no interface to this
application, and it must run on any Amiga hardware, with OS 2.1 or greater
installed.  It will sing the specified "Happy Birthday to you" song in key,
and at the right tempo.

The application will make use of the Amiga's built-in speech synthesizer and
its ability to set the pitch and duration of every phoneme (vowel/consonant
sound), to execute a fair rendition of the specified song.  The programming
interface chosen will allow full control over the speech synthesizer, and
it will allow multitasking with other applications, and share system
resources.

Components:
The speech synthesizer, which is a combination of hardware and a software
library to communicate to the hardware, is capable of controlling pitch,
speed, inflection, amplitude, and voice gender.  It is an advanced existing
system, which can execute over 40 different phonemes found in the English
language; it also interprets common English words into these phonemes.  It
has been tested, and operates as described.

Operation:
The application will contain two elements.  The first element will be the
definition of the song itself.  The song is broken up into individual words,
and is structurally divided into syllables where the pitch of the syllable
is potentially different from the previous syllable.  Each part of this
structure will define the syllable, its pitch, and duration or speed, in
accordance with the musical form of the specified song.

The second element of the application will read the structure of the song
and interface with the built-in speech synthesizer, feeding the parts of
the song into the speech synthesizer quickly enough that it does not affect
the way the song is heard.

Both elements will support modifications of the content of the song in such
a way as to confine the modifications to the song structure element only.
