Wordworth 6

>> PART 1: The Font Requester
PART 2: Document Properties
PART 3: Printer Setup
PART 4: Customisation

Wordworth seems to have won the Amiga Word processor crown. Final Writer
doesn't seem to be in development any more, so Wordworth has won, and
it is a very good program. Although it's not any where near as good
as PageStream, but that's in a different league (and price range)
altogether.

This first tutorial will take a look at the Wordworth font requester.
This can be a complicated thing if you are not familiar with the
program. We're only going to be looking at simple things in this
series.

The font requester appears when you choose the Font option in the
Format menu. A large window with lots of stuff in it will appear
on the screen.

At the top of the window is the place where you can choose the font
to use. If you click on the arrow, a pop up menu will allow you to
choose the font you want to use in your wordworth document. To
the right of the font selector is the font size selector. It works
in the same way as the font selector. Click on the arrow to choose
a size, or type in a custom size. Easy.

In the box labelled 'Style', you get to choose the style of the font
you've selected. The 4 check boxes are pretty obvious, Bold, Italic,
Underlined and Plain. Below those are two cycle gadgets one labelled
'Underline:' and one labelled 'Position:'. The Underline one lets
you choose between single and double underlined.

Position allows you to choose between Superscript and Subscript. For
those who don't know what these are, Superscript means the text appears
smaller and higher than usual (useful for 'TM' (Trademark) text).
Subscript is the opposite.

On the right of the window is the effects box. The first thing in
here is the width box. This chooses the width in percent of the
text. 100% is the normal setting. Set it larger to get wider fonts
and smaller to get thinner fonts.

Underneath that is the Oblique box which is just like setting Italics
on. Oblique, however, allows you to specify how slanted the text
will be, in degrees (°).

The big white area at the bottom is the preview window. Next to that
is the Color selection area. You can choose the text colour from
the list, and the background colour for the text.

Finally, the bottom box, Typesetting. This contains the tracking box
which is quite useful. It allows you to specify how big the space is
between letters, in point sizes. The kerning cycle gadget seems to
alter the space between the letters by a preset amount.

Easy isn't it?
