{backimage bg.iff}
{center}
{subhead}The Amiga that is and can.....{def}{p}
Article by Shane Ponting
{left}
{pp}  
It is lucky that e-paper cannot be tarnished by tears for it is with
great sorrow that I write this last article.  The Amiga Computer
was the bleeding edge of raw technology and innovative software.  Today
it may not be a mark of bleeding edge hardware but innovation has
clung on tightly to remain.  OS4.0 is innovative, because it follows
an amigan tradition, one that dictates code efficiency, a quality
that no other mainstream OS can come close to.  And yet our hardware
has not been all lost.  One of the questions posed to amiga techs
has been to try and help users decide whether or not the 'classic' amiga
(we must find a new name because classic amiga sounds shrude) hardware
should be smothered in upgrades or whether an amigaONE system should
be purchased.  If you want performance, stability and for the hardware
side of things, modern applications then there is a wide gap dictating
that an amigaONE computer system is the choice.
{pp}
There is only one reason to stick to your classic amiga system and
that is novelty - I mean its not everyday you see a 10-year old
computer loaded up with a Radeon 9700 Pro, 512mb of SDRAM,
Soundblaster Live, etc and actually achieveing competitive performance
with stability to envy even modern day PC Clones (not that its a
hard feat to do that hehe!).  I write this article trying to
close the doors that have been opened however I am fearful of
editorial revenge should I make this too multi-threaded.
{pp}
I have one last point to make though, its a question to you, the amiga
community this time.  I want to know what you are doing for your
people.  Thats it, nothing hard just a question that will steer
you towards issues like the mozilla project, ie the need for
programming talent.  Over the next year consider your capabilities, whether
it be an ambitious programmer, a user group executive, an amiga e-store
owner or even the humble user.  Do what you do best and do it with pride
because out of the lesson's learned over the years of amiga's
history one point has always stood out that has driven our every advance,
whether is be technical, political or economical is you the
community.  I bid you all adue and look forward to the future, for
which I bear no uncertainty about.
{pp}
"A world without amiga is like a pencil with no lead - wheres the point?"
{pp}
-Shane         
{pp}
