{backimage gamesbak.iff}
{center}
{subhead}Descent Freespace Preview{def}{p}
Review by Vincenzo Morra
{left}
{pp}
Back in the 1998 a company called Volition (the creator of the
acclaimed game Descent) developed an amazing space combat simulator
which many considered the sequel of Descent. The game in question was
called Freespace - The Great War, which offered  a mix of great
graphics and a movie plot.
{pp}
We Amiga users have had a similar experience in the past thanks to an
old  game called Elite. It was an fantastic piece of software (for
that time) which mixed travelling, trading and space combat elements.
Many years later David Braben decided to answer the prayers of all
his fans and developed a sequel for Elite which was called Frontier.
It was a highly waited game and, although it was acclaimed by the
critics it failed to achieve the success it deserved. Both games were
mainly focused on travelling and trading materials with different
species making the combat part only a secondary purpose.  What could
be considered a concept similar to Freespace appeared on Amiga and
CD32 with the name of Wing Commander. It was space simulator with
cinematic animations and great graphics effects. The Amiga conversion
left a lot to be desired but nevertheless it managed to be fun for a
short amount of time. 
{pp}
For the past months Hyperion has been very busy working on the Amiga
conversion of Freespace. The game, which is coming out very soon, is
the first from Hyperion that can be also run on a non ppc machine.
Great news for non ppc users.
{pp}
The demo I have used for this preview is the version four which
include the main archive plus an update. Make sure you have a fast
Internet connection if you want to download it because it is more
than 25 MB in size. The version I have downloaded is the ppc one but
for my final review I will be testing both the ppc and 68K versions.
{pp}
Since the first release many people have experienced mysterious
crashes (or screen freezing) on their system. In order to solve the
problem make sure you have  downloaded the latest patch which,
according to Hyperion, should solve the problem. Indeed, on my system
I have experienced only a couple of crashes which disappeared after
updating to version four.
{pp}
Once installed the demo will take over 45 MB of your hard disk space.
The game uses a launch icon system (similar to the one used in Shogo)
where it is possible to change the main settings before running
Freespace. The setting system is very advanced and it is possible to
change almost anything. The setup window is divided into different
sections identified by tabs. Each section deals with different
settings. In the video section you will have the opportunity to
choose whether to use the software or hardware rendering system. You
can setup the cd device in the sound section where it is also
possible to re-direct the music and fx to a sound card (thanks to
AHI). That is if you have one installed in your Amiga. You can also
change values in the warp3D and memory screens to adapt the game to
the power of your machine. Finally, after carefully choosing your
control system (mouse, PC joystick, CD32 joypad or Playstation
joypad) you can have a quick glance at the network screen were the
multiplayer option will allow 12 players to play together using a
direct (LAN) or indirect connection (Internet).
{pp}
Once th job is done the settings will be saved on the hard drive
ready to be loaded the next time you run the game.
{pp}
Enough with the settings, time to launch the game and be catapulted
in a universe of war, honour and survival.
{pp}
The plot of Freespace starts off in the 14th year of the war between
the Terrans and the Vasudans when both races had to put aside their
differences once the technologically superior Shivans came into
existence. The primary idea is to avoid a conflict with the Shivans;
then it will be your mission to steal their technology and uncover
their secrets. After choosing the name you want to assign to your
character it is time to travel to the beautiful hangar screen. Here
you can start a new campaign, change the in game options, view
specifications of ships and weapons (not available in the demo), go
to the barrack to manage your pilot or exit Freespace.
{pp}
Start a new campaign and you will be taken straight to the briefing
room were you will be given the possibility to start or skip a
training session with an expert pilot. It is advisable to get some
training if you want to quickly learn flying technique and spaceship
controls. Throughout the training the tutor will give you
instructions on how to flight and combat with the enemy. Complete the
training mission and you will get an evaluation with the possibility
to go on your first mission.
{pp}
I have managed to play the first two missions of the game which were
particularly easy for me. Obviously, those are introductory missions
and the game will surely increase in difficulty once the first few
levels have been mastered. Each mission is accompanied by a briefing
session which is spoken by your commander. Throughout the game your
colleagues will keep in touch to inform you of the progress made.
They will also warn you about danger and help you out in case of
difficulty. This is surely a game that involves team work if you want
to win. Each level involves a primary and secondary mission to be
completed before it is possible to move onto the next level.
{pp}
The most amazing thing about this game is the speed. It is true that
you spend most of the time in a virtually empty space (at least the
first 2 levels) and therefore there is not much to be calculated by
the Amiga, but all the graphics on the screen (ships, cranes, etc.)
are amazing, with full use of colored lighting, shielding, lens
flares,  and explosions which I am sure will surprise you.
{pp}
One thing I found annoying is the amount of information present on
screen which makes navigation slightly confusing. Thank God it is
possible to modify the settings so to leave on the screen only the
minimum information necessary to complete the mission. The rest of
information will pop up on the screen when needed.
{pp}
The sound effects are also amazing with a beautiful use of speech and
a sci fi movie soundtrack which make the game even more realistic.
{pp}
The missions I have played were never repetitive and involved
defending a ship or protecting a cargo from alien attacks.
{pp}
Knowing Hyperion reputation I must admit I had little doubts about
the quality of Freespace. The game is coming out really good and
every detail that was present in the PC version is now here on our
Amiga version. It is true that Freespace is a three year old game,
but if you have enjoyed Elite and have been waiting for a space
simulator similar to the Colony Wars series on the Playstation then
Freespace is what you need. Heretic 2 and Shogo were already great
conversions and with the coming of Freespace I can truly confirm that
Hyperion has qualified as master software house in game conversions.
Don't miss the next issue were Freespace will be thoroughly tested to
see if it is worth of our AIO gold.
{pp}
Demo available from {link http://hyperion-entertainment.com}http://hyperion-entertainment.com{end}
{pp}
{pp}
{bold}Screen Shots:{nobold}  Rather then try and scale down the colors 
and sizes of the two screenshots we have of Freespace into the limits of
our GUI (and so even those with lower powered systems can view them),
you'll find the two Freespace pics in thir full jpeg glory in the root
dirctory of this issue.  Just look for {italic}freespace_01.jpg{noitalic}
and {italic}freespace_02.jpg{noitalic}
{pp}
