{backimage bg.iff}
{center}
{subhead}View From The Outside{def}{p}
Article by Joe Deats
{left}
{pp}
Well its been a while since I've done my "View From The Outside" mostly because
I was in my last year of college and because I've been a bad lazy boy. But here
I am! So what's going on out here on the outside?  Some excitement but mostly
waiting and waiting and waiting..I know the new Amiga's are coming but I havent
seen one yet and all I've had available has been rumors and the crumbs of news
we occasionally get thrown by Amiga.Inc and that's not much to go on. I'm
hearing about a palm that uses Amiga O.S. and I'm hearing about the Amiga One
but they have been as elusive as Big Foot, only scattered sightings and no
proof. I'm not loosing heart here on the contrary I'm just saying that this is
a waiting game and all of us have been waiting for a VERY long time. What do I
think of Amiga giving Tao the boot to the head... well I'm glad they have decided
to run with what made Amiga great and not try to reinvent the wheel, after all
the Amiga is a bright shiny chrome 18 inch alloy racing wheel and it just needs
cleaning.
{pp}
       My next bitch or rant or kanipshan fit is over the processor. Dear god
don't go with the power pc, Mac is just now reaching the lofty 733 mhz
heights(insert oohs and ahhs here) meanwhile this is being written on a 1Ghz
Amd machine purchased for under 1500 bucks(I'll wait while you cry)...The new
Amd cpu the Athlon 4 or Palamino to those in the know now runs at (brace
yourself) 1.4 volts yes, 1.4 volts do you want me to say that again... ok I
will.  1.4 volts and is reaching the 1.4 and 1.5 Ghz range for around 300 dollars per
cpu. Lets play a game here, a what-if game... lets say Apple go's bye bye
following the myriad of dot.bombs lately into the great internet beyond. Ok do
you really think Motorola will continue making the power pc or (and this is
important) working on newer and faster versions? I think not, not for a few
hundred thousand Amiga's; no the Amiga will be stranded without a company doing
any research on new cpu's and it will have to go to x86 stuff anyway. So
there's my cpu rant.  You don't like it tough write back so we can have some reader
feedback.
{pp}