Knock Out 2

   Knock Out 2 is basically a top down game, where you have to drive your
car into someone else's car in order to knock them out of the constantly
shrinking ring. If you get a few mated around and get out the parallel
port 4-player adapter and it can be quite a lot of fun. It is kind of like
the bowl tracks in Destruction Derby, only in 2D and looking from the top.
If it was just a simple version with no extras, this games life span would
not be very long, but luckily the author has added in a few extras, like
teams and a 4 way game of football with cars.

   You can have from about 2 to 8 cars in the ring at once, if you have
anything less than an unexpanded A1200, then you will probably need to
switch off a few cars. You can have 4 players using joysticks/joypads (If
you have a 4 way parallel adapter) and 4 on the keyboard, or if you don`t
have any friends, then you can set the other 7 cars to be controlled by
the computer. You can change the colour of your car and also have a 3
lettered word or name above each car, but even a standard A1200 is slowed
down a lot by having this feature enabled! There are plenty more weird
options, like the friction setting and you can even set the speed at which
the ring shrinks.

   There are several gaming modes, including Normal, Elastic, Teams,
Football thing and a few others. In normal, it is the standard knock the
other cars out of the ring game. Elastic is where player 1 and 2 are
connected together by a piece of elastic, players 3 and 4, 5 and 6, 7 and
8 are also connected together by elastic bands. When you go racing off in
one direction and the other is stationary, it will usually drag the other
player toward you. When one of you goes over the edge and is eliminated
from the game, the elastic between you is cut and the other player carries
on as usual. Teams is where players 1 and 2 are in team 1, players 3 and
4 are in team 2, players 5 and 6 are in team 3 and players 7 and 8 are in
team 4. There is no connection between the 2 cars, only the teams number
over each car. The football game is quite a bit different to the other
modes. There are only 4 players (The first 4 players), and they start in
the top, bottom, left or right of the screen. There is the normal ring in
the middle of the screen, exsept it doesn't shrink. Going from the bottom
of the ring to the bottom of the screen is a platform in the colour of the
player that starts there. And from the top of the ring to the top of the
screen is a platform in the colour of the player starting there, and the
same for the left and right players. In the middle of the ring is a big,
yellow ball. The idea is to either be the last car in the ring or to score
the most goals. You score goals by hitting the ball; the ball then travels
in the direction it was hit at. You must try to knock it along the platform
of another players and then knock it of the edge of the platform to score
- if you get the ball along your own platform, it will count as an own goal.

   The only problem with the football gaming mode is that the collision
detection between the ball and the car is very poor, the car sometimes
drives over the top of the ball or gets stuck on top of it.

   The graphics on this game are not bad, they do the job, but they could
have been a bit better. The sound is reasonable. The sound effects of a car
colliding with another car do become irritating after a short period of
time, but the music on the other hand is not too bad, if you like computer
game music that is.

Summary

   It is a good game with lots of interesting features, it is ever better
if you have a 4 player adapter, 4 joysticks and 7 friends. It is a good
laugh if you are bored and it is likely to keep you occupied for longer
than a few minutes.

Contacts:  Samuel Brookes at woa_pd-editor@ami-gerbil.freeserve.co.uk
              www.ami-gerbil.freeserve.co.uk

