@6
              K-OS @ THE QUE CLUB, CORPORATION STREET, BIRMINGHAM@1
              ---------------------------------------------------@4
                                FRIDAY 2ND JUNE@1
                                ---------------

@5
K-OS  is  a  new promotion and this night was only it's second outing,   the
first also at the Que Club.

I  heard  about  it  from  a  flyer posted to me by  Vinyl  Prayground,   an
organisation hosting DJ competitions and promotion.  The nights line  up  of
DJs were mainly new comers,  well apart from Mistress Mo who always puts  on
a good show.

If  this event was all about up and coming DJs,  I thought,  then there's  a
chance  for  me,  how cool would it be to play at the Que?!   I  phoned  the
promoter Matt James on the night of the event and told him who  I  was.   He
stated  that  if we caught up with him on the night he would  give  us  some
details  of  how  to get him some tapes etc.  I didn't  hold  much  hope  of
finding  someone  I´d  never seen before inside the Que  Club  but  stranger
things have happened I suppose.


@5
Me  and my mate James headed into Brum at about 8:45p.m.  and made our first
pitstop  at The Gallery on Smallbrook Queensway.  After a few@2 Red  Bulls@5  we
caught up with Doug,  the promoter of a new night at The Gallery which I had
played  at  a  week  earlier.  As if by magic he produced  us  with  another
booking for June 15th.  With Flashback on the 17th that looked like  a  good
time to be playing some Old Skool and Drum & Bass. Excellent!

After  that  we headed to Corporation Street past all the new roadworks  and
down  into@6 The Blueprint Bar@5.  After another drink or two in there we headed
back  up  the  the Que and were surprised as there was very little  activity
apart  from the door security.  I asked if Matt James was about and we  were
directed inside and after a quick pad down we were introduced to him,   that
wasn't so hard afterall.  After a quick chat he asked me to give him a  ring
in the week to get some details for sending him some tapes. Result!

Anyway,  on with the show.  We didn't come to talk all night! We paid our £4
at  the  counter  and  headed  towards the  vibrating  walls  upstairs.   My
suspicions  were  right,  the main arena was closed tonight  with  just  the
lower two rooms playing the choons.  It made sense really,  seeing as though
it  was  only a relatively small event.  We dropped our coats off for  £1.50
and  made  our  way  through into the first room to get refreshed.   In  the
smaller  of  the  two rooms were DJs playing deep trance and  techo  grooves
through an excellent sound system with lights and projections to match.  One
of  the  projections was a cloud scape which along with the music was really
quite  relaxing.  After a few@2 Red Bulls@5 in that room we headed  off  to  the
bigger arena which now had a bar at the back of it.

The  sounds  and  lights in this room were even better  with  crystal  clear
treble  and  bone  shattering  basslines.  Hanging  from  the  ceiling  were
balloons  and  drapes  being illuminated by big UV  lamps  and  spot  lights
courtesy of Ritch Bitch Studios and Pacific Sound.

As  the  hard Trance and Hard House sounds pounded I noticed how this  event
had attracted such a wide range of people.  Some dressed in all out clubbing
gear,  some in traditional indie and rockers clothes which in a way made the
night more special,  kind of a unification. The night only really started at
about  11pm  when  we got dragged up onto the dance platform  by  two  girls
which  were rolling around tipping water into eachothers mouths!  The  smoke
machine came on,  the amps warmed up and clubbing bliss ensued. Hours later,
after  filling my water bottle up a million times,  Mistress Mo  graced  the
decks  and  laid on plenty of Pumping House tunes from the Tidy Trax  label,
real crowd pleasers.

There  were  people  jumping around everywhere you looked.   People  shaking
hands.   One  bloke  even had some light glasses he was waving  around.   It
reminded  me so much of the old rave era where everyone is  out  to  have  a
good time and not give a shit how you dress,  dance or anything. A brilliant
atmosphere.

At 20 past 3 in the morning the strobes stopped and the music wound down  to
a  close.  My body was soaked and my legs felt like they were clamped  in  a
vice  but  I  still  had  a  smile on my face as  I  had  witnessed  another
brilliant night at an excellent club with outstanding people.
@3
                               Well done guys.
@1
                           The night features DJs:
@4
Mistress Mo,  Stu Jack,  Olly T,  Juliette,  Ian S, Phil T, I-Eye, Clare and
Jimmy Tango.

@2
                                 Tickets - £4
@5

                      Que Club          @1 - 0121 212 0550
                      K-OS              @1 - 0781 822 8348
                      Rich Bitch Studios@1 - 0121 471 3110