@2                               THE MUSIC SCENE@1
                               ---------------
@5
Well  it's  been a while since I last sat down at the computer to  tell  the
Amiga  community of my developments and I apologise.  The only reason behind
that is that it's been so bloody hectic round my neck of the woods the  last
few months that I don't even know where to start.

First  of all,  anyone who want's a mad weekend of Old Skool,  Drum &  Bass,
Jungle and Hard House should come up to Birmingham from the 15th to 18th  of
June.   On  the 15th me @1(XLR8)@5  and James@1 (Mixmad)@5  will be playing  in  the
basement  bar of The Gallery on Smallbrook Queensway in the City Centre.   I
played  there a few weeks back and it was absolutely storming with  MC  Jaff
and  DJ  Infamous tearing the place down after I stepped off of  my  2  hour
set. So now you know!

On the 16th it's Music First at the Venue,  Branston Street,  Hockley.  Kool
FMs finest DJs rip it up with MCs Accapello and Biggy alongside some of  the
worlds best Drum and Bass DJs. Tickets for that will be@3 £10@5.

On the 17th it's the mighty@4 FLASHBACK@5 at The Que Club!!!!  Yes that's right,
over  9 hours of underground musical mayhem is to be unleashed on the cities
finest club with an excellent line up@1:
@4
                   MICKEY FINN back to back with KENNY KEN

                       SLIPMATT back to back with LIME

                         KROME back to back with TIME

                    MISTRESS MO back to back with PILGRIM

               MC LENNI back to back with MAN PARRIS and JAY J

                  NICKY BLACKMARKET back to back with RATTY

                        TANGO back to back with ADDICT

                        SHAOLIN back to back with PACE

                       MARK EG back to back with M ZONE

                EMMA FRISCO back to back with CHARLOTTE BIRCH

                       OSTRO back to back with LEVITATE


@5
You  want  more?!  This event will be spread over 3 main arenas  with  other
bars and rooms to explore,  Mixmag will be there along with Core Productions
with  their film crew and there's also a pre-club party at The Gallery  with
Glenn  Aston back to back with Nexus. #8 PHEWY!@1  For more info phone 0121  472
0777 or goto www.flashback96.com
@5
What  else has been happening.  I finally sold my old Escort,  read My First
Car article and I´m involved with a project called The Blue Zone.  This is a
new  play / project type thing which is being held at the Birmingham MAC  at
Cannon Hill Park in Edgbaston.  It's about a group of young people and their
lives and going to clubs,  pubs,  taking drugs etc etc.  Where I come in  is
they  need a DJ to do some live scratching and mixing over one of the  zones
@1(the  project is split into 4 separate zones)@5.  It's all very  exciting  and
when I get some firm dates I´ll let you know.

I'm  DJing  in  France on Saturday the 5th of August.  I  have  yet  to  get
location and all the rest of it but I´m told it's some mad outdoor thing  in
a field with a barn.@2 My sort of rave!!!!#8 :-)
@5
Bought some new CDs@1 -@3 Aphex Twin,  Windowlicker. Eminem, My Name Is. Eminem,
Guilty Consscience.@5  I know they are old but it had to be done,  they're all
great tunes.




I  have finally got some new decks.  I bought two Technics SL120mk2s  and  a
Vestax PMC-03A from Orange DJ Megastore Mail Order.  The whole DJ setup with
carts,  headphones etc cost a whopping £810 but believe me,  it's worth  it.
If  you  haven´t got Technics yet then get your pennies saved 'cos when  you
do  get them you'll never get rid of them.  The mixers pretty good too  with
strong  faders and a good design.  If you can get that package  any  cheaper
than i did then write in, we are always after the cheapest bargains.

Don't forget,  I´ve got 340 Dance, House, Trance, Hip Hop, Soul records here
so if your looking to expand your collection you know who to call.
@3
   Well that's about it, I´m off now to do a tape for the promoter of K-OS.
#8
                                C U@4 Next Time

@1
                                     XLR8