                                    SMOKIN'
                                   ^^^^^^^^^
                               FRIDAY 14th APRIL
                               -----------------
                    ++  The all new Collosseum Nightclub  ++
                    ++  Primrose Hill Street, Coventry    ++

It was completely by luck that i even heard about this event,  let alone got
tickets for it.

                           The story is as follows:
 
It  was just a normal day in March and i'd just got home from work.   I  had
recently  got some new records and was eager to try them out on  the  decks.
While  i  was  upstairs practising,  the doorbell had rung and  my  mom  had
answered it.  It turned out to be a sales rep from Powergen trying to get us
to  change  our  gas and electricity.  I had worked for Norweb  and  Eastern
Electricity  in the past and was a bit apprehensive about  the  change  over
which mom was interested in.

As  my mom and Paul (the rep)  talked in the living room,  i came downstairs
and  got something to eat.  Paul asked what i had been doing upstairs as  he
had  heard what sounded like "someone cueing up a record" as he put it.  And
that was it!  We got talking about my music and he eventually mentioned that
he  was  a  DJ  by  the name of The Saint,  Rin Sin and Welly  as  in  "Paul
Wellington".  I told him that i went to events such as Flashback and  Atomic
Jam  and he started telling me about this event in Coventry called "Smokin'"
which  featured acts such as The Rat Pack,  Mickey Finn and Chris Liberator.
I  showed a keen intered in this future event and as if by magic he produced
2  free  tickets for me and a mate!  Result!  After talking some more  about
music  production and the like i asked him where i could  buy  more  tickets
for the event as i was sure more of my mates would like to come.....  2 more
free tickets! That'll do nicely!

Paul  wasn't  to play at the event on the 14th of April but,  he  said,   he
played Surreal and other promotions in Coventry which was pretty cool.

So  that  was  it,  i had 4 tickets to shift,  shouldn't be too  much  of  a
problem i thought.  Of course,  one went to me and one to James, my raving /
breakdancing  mate.  I had also recently started a new job  in  Hockley  and
there  had  met girl who said she always had wanted to got  to  a  rave  but
never got the chance.  Maybe now would be her chance.  Would you say no to a
free ticket,  free lift and probably some free drinks to a rave with SHUT UP
AND  DANCE playing? No? Well i gave her both the tickets to do with  as  she
wished,  2 weeks before the event and she seemed pretty keen.  But,   to  my
dispair,   on  the Monday before the event,  she gave me both  tickets  back
saying that she had to go to "Studi Bakers" in Birmingham instead!  Oh Well!
So i spent a few frantic days trying to get rid of these two tickets,  to no
avail! What is it with people? You can't even give things away!

On  the Friday afternoon while James was round mine on the decks,  i  had  a
surprise visit off Sonny,  a mate from college i hadn't seen in a while.   I
tried,   but he didn't want the ticket either because he had just come  from
Coventry where he worked.  So at 8:45pm we set off on the Coventry Road  and
arrived in good time at about 20 past 9.  I was informed that the place  was
to  open at 9pm but by 10pm there was still no sign of movement,  apart from
the crowd of people outside freezing there bits off.  We finally got in  the
spacious looking club at about 10:15.  I don't know how much it was to  hang
the  coats up because we left ours in my car.  We handed in our tickets  and
got  searched  briefly before setting off into the clean  and  tidy  looking
club.   Door  No.1  held a long thin room with a spacious  bar  and  seating
arrangments.  There was a small DJ setup at the far end of  the  room  which
was  playing rock and indie tracks.  After getting two cans of  "Red  Devil"
energy drink for £4 we swiftly made our exit and entered door No.2.

This was obviously the main arena.  A large box room with a bar all down one
side,  seating and tables down the other, a lighting control box at the back
and  large stage and DJ booth at the front.  There was also a dance platform
in  there  and  it  also  contained two balconies  which  were  unfortunatly
unaccesable.   The  night was still early with people  of  all  age,   dress
conduct  and alcohol tolerence wandering about.  The DJ was playing  a  good
mixture  of House,  Trance,  Techno,  Big Beat and Jungle to get the  crowds
flowing.  The sound system was really spot on with Lights,  Strobes,   Smoke
machines and bubble machines to match.

I  asked  one of the friendly bar staff if there were just these  two  rooms
and she directed me to another bar which was upstairs.  After a short flight
of  stairs  we were greeted with yet another spacious room.  The  decor  and
paintwork was very tidy and neat and this room was a lot brighter  than  the
last two.  There were good seating arrangments at the bottom section and  up
on  a  raised platform was the small bar,  more seating,  toilets,  DJ booth
playing 80s stuff and 3 FREE Playstation consoles to play on!  After a quick
blast  or  two on Gran Turismo 2 and some skateboarding game we headed  back
downstairs to see if things had picked up any.
The  crowds were starting to pick up a bit now as the DJ played some classic
Old-Skool  tracks.   Altough the arena didn't fill  to  anywhere  near  it's
capacity,  both the DJ,  MC and everyone in the place made an effort to keep
the  atmosphere  going  which always makes a good  night  when  everyone  is
trying hard.

At  midnight the DJ Menace stepped down to be replaced by the classic record
label  -  SHUT  UP & DANCE!  They really laid on a treat for  us  with  some
banging  tracks  of their own and others.  They played a  right  mixture  of
Jungle,  Oldskool,  Big Beat,  Hip Hop, Techno, Electroid and Trance all the
way  up  to  2am.   With such a small crowd,  they did an excellent  job  of
keeping everyone moving.

By  2:15 the lights had come on and it was time to leave for the A45  again.
Altough the night hadn't been a complete success in the way of crowds,   the
clean cut club and excellent mix of music certainly made up for it.

The  night  featured  -  Shut  Up & Dance,  Menace,   Kleen  Kut  Kamikazes,
Strikeforce.

                             Forthcoming events:
                             -------------------

Smokin - 0796 866 6087.   19th May
	    			      16th June

Surreal - 0961 908 986.   24th April
		07932 471 916.  26th May