@3
                         So you want to be a Surfer?@1

                "I'm not on the Net cos I only have an Amiga"
@2
                      Right, this article is for you!!!
@5
Forget  all the crap and hype surrounding the@1 "Net"@5.  Putting an  Amiga  on-
line  isn't much harder than it is for a P.C.  Thats right,  you can't  just
stick  a  Freeserve CD @3(you do have a CD drive,  don't you)@5  and go on-line.
However,  as the article goes forward,  you might find its not so hard after
all.

First  things first!  What exactly do we need? Well,  we need  a  modem.   A
couple  of things to remember .  We use external modems!  We also can't  use
Windows  specific  modems!  It also helps if you don't  have  a  bare  Amiga
setup.  I would recommend at least 4 meg of fast ram as a minimum.  I  would
also  recommend  at  least  an 030 processor@3 (25 mhz  minimum)@5.   These  are
recommendations,  one of my friends gets by with a 33.6  modem  and  an  020
with 4meg Ram expansion.Its slow but it works...and works well!
@1
                     There, that wasn't so hard ,was it?


@5


A  modem  is easy to source.  Simply go to a computer shop and  ask  for  an
external  modem,  go to a computer show and ask for a  modem  or  check  the
local papers etc.  for people selling their old modem.  Look for at least  a
33.6  modem!   The Internet can be quite slow sometimes and  having  a  slow
modem  isn't  all that great an idea.  The Amiga serial port  is  very  much
outdated  nowadays and a fast serial port can be had  by  phoning  an  Amiga
based company ,  who will be delighted to offer you a modem @3(they will  also
offer  you a software bundle to go with it)@5.  There are a couple of ways  to
go  here.  You can go for Amiga based companies to supply your needs  or  go
the  cheaper route and do everything yourself.  The cheap way is  to  buy  a
second  hand  modem@3 (your Amiga will handle a 33.6 modem without  needing  a
faster serial port)@5 and use demo software for everything.

OK,  we'll assume that you have yourself a modem , an 030 based Amiga with 4
meg  of  fast  ram.  I should also point out that you can use  a  v90  modem
without  a fast serial port@3 (but your transfer rates will be slowed  by  the
serial port )@5.






What  else do we need.? Well,  some software would be nice!  We need  a  TCP
stack.   If  you have Workbench 3.5,  you've got the demo of Miami  and  the
Special Edition of AWeb as well as the E-Mail program given with 3.5.  Thats
all you need really.  If you don't have 3.5 ,then you need programs such  as
these.   There  are  a  wide range of alternatives for  Amiga  in  the  mail
programs.  You could use Yam@3 (freeware)@5,  Thor@3 (shareware)@5  etc. etc. In the
Browser  department,  there are AWeb as mentioned previously,   IBrowse  and
Voyager.   TCP  stacks  usually boil down to a choice  between  Genesis  and
Miami.  We'll go the cheap way again and also assume you don't have 3.5.  Do
we  buy  an  Amiga magazine or did buy them? If you have a  CD  drive,   you
probably  bought/buy the CD version of the mag.  Looking through  these  and
you'll be spoilt for choice.  Everything you need in the software department
is on these CDs.  A quick look at the docs and you be able to install them@3 (
thats  if  they  don't  have an install program with them  and  thats  quite
unusual as well)@5.

As  with everything else,  money helps.  Demos will work and you can  wander
about  online using them,  however,  the demo of Miami only  allows  you  30
minutes online.  Using Yam is free and it is one of the best e-mail  clients
around,  Thor will set you back about £20 apprx,  but it does a helluva  lot
more  than Yam.  There is also Netconnect to buy if you wish which  has  all
you need as well but again costs money .  You can usually get Netconnect  at
a special price if you are buying a modem from an Amiga dealer!  Once again,
if  you do go online ,  you will find software to do most anything with your
Amiga  eg  Stargate is now Freeware and can be downloaded.  Stricq  is  also
Freeware and is available online as well as Amster,  Anapster, Amygate, just
to  mention a Very few.  The world can indeed be your oyster if and when you
do manage to get online.
@5
Ah,   but  how do I configure it to go on-line? Again ,we have a variety  of
choices!  You can sign up with Wirenet.  Run by Neil Bothwick@3  (  new  media
editor  for AmigActive)@5,  this is the easiest way I know to get  on-line  if
you  are  unsure.   Neil  provides   the   entire   software  suite  needed,
preconfigured  for you to get on-line.  Anyone can get  on-line  using  this
method @1....@5  totally painless and even by some strange quirk,  you fail,  an
Amiga  expert is at the other end of the phone to guide you  step  by  step.
Neil  has very kindly agreed to let us include the Wirenet application  form
for  Ripper  readers on our disk version.  Simply fill it out and  send  the
money with it .  Within days you will have an internet connection all set up
and  ready  to go.  This is exactly the way that I got online and  I  highly
recommend it as a first step.  You want a cheaper method!  OK, how about you
sign  up for@2 Freeserve!@5  Here at ripper HQ.....@3(yeah ,right)@5,  we have  Andy
Mills,   who wrote an online guide to configure your software for Freeserve.

Andy  has done a special version of this guide which you will also  find  in
this edition of Ripper.  Check out the rest of the mag. for details. I don't
want  to  pay for my calls!  Well,  there are a growing band of ISP's  doing
this  now  and terms vary.  BT.  will charge you £9.99 a month for  an  0800
number  to go on-line with them ,Redhotant will charge you £40  for  a  year
,Freeserve is also doing a deal for a small amount of money a month (£6.99).
There are many more!  I would suggest walking before you run however .   Get
on-line first!  We've shown two easy ways and once on-line,  look around  on
the  Net  and  you  will  find  a wealth of software@3 (freeware,   shareware,
commercial demos)@5  to keep you busy for months. You will also find all those
ISP's and their offers.  Learn how to configure your own settings .  In  the
Amiga community on-line, you will also find loads of people who have written
extremely easy to follow guides on how to do most anything with your  Amiga.

There are also plenty of other on-line software to do more.  STRicq for  on-
line  chatting,  IRC programs,  FTP programs and Napster clones etc.   etc..
@1
Sound  good!@5   This could be you!  Find out that there are  loads  of  Amiga
owners and users.  Search for elusive companies, share in all those bargains
that they advertise on telly that can be found only on-line.  More and  more
our  society  is moving towards an on-line economy.  don't get  left  behind
Treat your Amiga, put it where it belongs, put it on-line!!





And ,by the way,  discover what Ripper magazine looks like on the Web! It is
a  bit  different from the disk version@3 ( simply because we have  lots  more
room and aren't bound by the vagaries of the editor used for the disk mag).
@7
                        Hope to see you online soon!!!
@5
And  once you do......subscribe to Ripperlist at E-Groups@1 (an online mailing
list chock full of members to help you if they can)@5.
#8
                              Now go do it@1!!!!!
@2
                                 <@4 Ian Urie@2 >

