9
1*
{1TRIBUUTTI JAY MINERILLE
{1=======================

Sakulle toimittanut Terje Bergström

Just learned of Jay Miner's apparent demise.Hadn't seen any details it
just seems he is dead.Below I offer my tribute to the fine man and if
anybody
has any complaints about bandwidth I suggest you go play with an IBM
instead of wasting your time complaining about it.

Jay Miner Interview Pasadena, September 1992.

The name badge says it all, Jay Miner, VIP, Father of the Amiga. During my
recent jaunt to the A4000 launch in Los Angeles, I was lucky enough to meet
and talk to Jay as he cast his fatherly eye over the next generation of the
architecture he created all those years ago. We talked and ate as he
reiterated the fascinating history of the secret project that resulted in
the birth of a remarkable machine, which has survived mainly because of his
foresight and supreme effort. It was all far from plain sailing, however,
and plenty of skullduggery was afoot from a number of parties, not least
the design team themselves!

The story about the Amiga's genesis has been told before, but it is only
relatively recently that Jay and Commodore have been seeing eye to eye
about the machine and its evolution. Also, there are many little anecdotes
untold before now...

Jay:

"The story starts in the early 1980`s with a company not originally called
Amiga, but Hi Toro, which was started by Dave Morris, our president, but
before all that I used to work with Atari and I wanted to do a 68000
machine with them. We had just finished the Atari 800 box and they were not
about to spend another umpteen dollars on research for a 16-bit machine and
the processor chip itself cost $100 apiece. RAM was also real expensive and
you need twice as much. They couldn't see the writing on the wall and they
just said "No", so I quit!".

Jay Miner is not a man to say "No" to, and it's quite clear that Atari must
still be regretting their myopic decision. Anyway, Jay still held the
concept of an all-powerful 16-bit machine but the bills had to be paid.

"I went to a chip company called Xymos as I knew the guy who started it. He
gave me some stock and it looked like an interesting startup company (I've
worked for a lot of new companies). Going back to Atari, Larry Caplan was
one of the top programmers on the Atari 2600 video game. Him and the other
programmers wanted a pay rise, or at least a small royalty, a nickel per
cartridge in fact, on the software that was selling like crazy. Atari was
making a fortune and they said "No" so they all said "Goodbye" and they
went off and started a little company called Activision. Larry rang me up
about two years later in early '82 and said he wasn't happy at Activision
and suggested we start up a company. I had a lot of stock in Xymos and
suggested we get some outside finance from back East. We hired a little
office on Scott Boulevard, Santa Clara and they got a Texas millionaire to
put up some money. He liked the idea of a new video game company which is
what Larry Caplan wanted to do. He was going to do the software and I was
going to design the chips".

"I told Dave Morris about some of the ideas I had about designing a games
machine that was expandable to a real computer and he though that was a
great idea but didn't tell any of his investors. I moved to Santa Clara
from Xymos. They were still called Hi Toro but the investors wern't too
keen so they chose "Amiga" and I didn't like it much - I thought using a
Spanish name wasn't such a good move. I was wrong!"

The design team at Hi Toro/Amiga was assembled from a bunch of people over
the next few months. Jay says that they were looking for people not just
interested in a job, but with a passion for the Amiga (codenamed Lorraine
after the president's wife) and the immense potential it offered.

"We worked out a deal whereby I got a salary and some stock and I also got
to bring my dog Mitchy into work every day. Dave did reserve the right to
go back on that one if anyone else objected but Mitchy was very popular."

I asked Jay to sum up what it was like to work on the Amiga:

"The great things about working on the Amiga? Number one I was allowed to
take my dog to work and that set the tone for the whole atmosphere of the
place. It was more than just companionship with Mitchy - the fact that she
was there meant that the other  people wouldn't be too critical of some of
those we hired, who were quite frankly weird. There were guys coming to
work in purple tights and pink bunny slippers. Dale Luck looked like your
average off-the-street homeless hippy with long hair and was pretty laid
back. In fact the whole group was pretty laid back. I wasn't about to say
anything - I knew talent when I saw it and even Parasseau Äthe "EvangelistÅ
who spread the wordÅ was a bit weird in a lot of ways. The job gets done
and that's all that matters. I didn't care how solutions came about even if
people were working at home.

"There were a lot of various arguments and the way most were sorted out was
by hitting each other with the foam baseball bats. The stung a bit if you
got hit hard. There was a conflict in the fundamental design philosophy
with some like RJ Mical wanting the low cost video game (the investors
side, you might say). Others like Dale Luck and Carl Sassenrath wanted the
best computer expansion capability for the future. This battle of cost was
never ending, being internal; among us as well as with the investors and
Commodore.

"You go through stages in any large project like the Amiga of thinking
"This looks great and it's going to sell really well", and then things go
wrong and you just want to quit!"

The unique spirit at Amiga was such that people worked tirelessly on their
various projects, remembering that the software was well on the way to
completion before any silicon had been pounded into the graphics chips.
Carl Sassenrath was brought in to do the operating system and was asked at
the interview "What would you like to design?". He just replied that he
wanted to do a multi-tasking operating system, and thus was born the Exec
which lies at the very heart of the Amiga. Carl has maintained his close
links with Commodore and was instrumental in designing CDTV. Incredible
really that they opted for such a sophisticated backdrop for a games
machine. Already, strange things were afoot....

"I started thinking about what we wanted to design. Right from the
beginning I wanted to do a computer like the A2000 with lots of expansion
slots for drives, a keyboard etc. I'd also read a bit about blitters and so
I talked with a friend called Ron Nicholson who was also interested in them
and he came to join us. We came up with all sorts of functions for the
blitter. Line drawing was added much later at the request of Dale Luck, one
of our software guys. This was about two weeks before the CES show where
the Amiga was unveiled. I told him we can't put that in there as the chips
were nearly done and there wasn't enough room. He fiddled about and showed
me what registers were needed, so in it went".

The chips took three designers including Jay (who did the Agnus) almost two
years to design (1982-84) and throughout this time the ever-expanding
software team were working on what became the Amiga's operating system
libraries and such like. They had a pretty tough job writing for the most
advanced, radical hardware ever conceived for a home machine, and which
didn't really exist, except for a zillion and one ideas and a white board
of obscure diagrams.

"Once you've got the design concept for the chips, all you need to do then
is pick names for the registers and tell the software people something like
"I'm going to have a register here that's going to hold the colours for
this part and it's called whatever." They can the simulate it in their
software. We then built hardware simulators called bread boards and that
was a chore. We originally did the chips using the NMOS process which has
much higher current consumption than the state of the art CMOS. I'm
surprised that Commodore haven't re-designed the chips in CMOS which is the
big stumbling block to bringing out a protable. We did that because at the
time, CMOS was much slower than NMOS and not as reliable. It's now much
faster, so why are Commodore still using NMOS for some of their chips?"

"Hold and Modify came from a trip to see flight simulators in action and I
had a kind of idea about a primitive type of virtual reality. NTSC on the
chip meant you could hold the Hue and change the luminance by only altering
four bits. When we changed to RGB I said that wasn't needed any more at it
wasn't useful and I asked the chip layout guy to take it off. He came back
and said that this would either leave a big hole in the middle of the chip
or take a three-month redesign and we couldn't do that. I didn't think
anyone would use it. I was wrong again as that has really given the Amiga
its edge in terms of the colour palette."

It was Commodore who wanted to leave things as NTSC/PAL output. We wanted
to make them RGB but monitors were so expensive in those days - IBM's and
Mac's were monochrome. I'd put the converter on the chip and this was a
very low cost way of doing things as it saved a lot of parts, but by the
time Commodore bought us, the bottom had fallen out of the video game
market and we were moving more towards a computer so Commodore agreed to
finance RGB as well.

Seeing pictures of the early Amiga, it's almost impossible to imagine that
the piles of wires and boards could eventually be reduced to something the
size of an A500. The first Agnus was three lots of eight bread boards, each
with 250 chips, and this was repeated for the other two custom chips which
were nicknamed Daphne and Portia in those days and metamorphosed into
Denise and Paula.

"Those were a nightmare to keep running with all the connections keeping
breaking down. They're still around somewhere. We hired lots of other
people to design peripherals which kept the notorious silicon valley spies
away from the office. All they could see were joysticks

-- Via DLG Pro v1.0

*  When privacy is outlawed,       **(all The /-/acker's /Ö/Öansion BBS   *
*   only outlaws will have privacy!**     1-803-785-5080 14.4 Supra       *
*************************************E-mail: Green_Ghost@neonate.atl.ga.us*
