{backimage bg.iff}
{center}
{subhead}Fixing your Amiga's keyboard{def}{p}
Article by Paul Harvey
{left}
{pp}
If you are like me, your keyboard is perhaps the only thing on your computer that doesn't need
upgrading. And even then, it's probably got a stubborn space bar, sticky enter key, or the
number 2 on your numeric keypad is dead, essentially rendering the whole pad useless for data
entry.
{pp}
Despite the rapid pace computer hardware has advanced over the years, keyboard technology is
still pretty much the same it always has been. Even the change from AT to PS2 interfaces in
wintel land was just a plug swap, and 'multimedia' keyboards with extra buttons are, well, exactly
that - more buttons to worry about. Worse still, replacement Amiga keyboards aren't getting any
cheaper.
{pp}
Every keyboard I have seen on a CBM machine - including the C64 - is a variation of the 
"membrane" concept. This isn't necessarily bad. Membrane keyboards would be a lot cheaper to
make than mechanical switch based keyboards. And in theory, due to their simplicity, they should
be more reliable. "Membrane" keyboards usually involve thin plastic sheets with conductive tracks
printed on them. Sometimes there will be three plastic sheets, with the centre one being blank
but full of holes where each key sits. When a key is depressed, the conductive tracks on the top 
sheet press against the tracks on the bottom sheet. So instead of 96+ individual mechanical PCB
mounted switches, there is just a few layers of plastic. So what can possibly go wrong?
{pp}
In practice, due to age and/or numerous spills of various beverages, the printed conductive tracks
become somewhat non-conductive. This isn't immediately bad - it seems the circuitry or the MPU
itself in my A4000 keyboard is quite tolerant of high resistances. On first inspection of my
second-hand keyboard, there seemed to be a coke spill on my number pad and a coffee spill on
the left. Over time, these beverages (especially the coke, if that's what it was), help degrade the
electrical characteristics of the tracks.
{pp}
If your interested in learning how keyboards work, it's interesting to see the behaviour of the
keyboard when certain tracks stop working. Because of the matrix nature of the wiring to each
key, if one track fails, you could end up with a row or a whole column of keys dying.
{pp}
My A4000 keyboard, manufactured by Mitsumi under the C= label, has a single layer of plastic,
which is less to worry about... Each key has conductive contacts that press on the exposed pads
on the membrane. The rest of this document describes some simple ideas which assume the
reader has the knowledge of how to use a multimeter and service basic computer peripherals
safely. What's presented here are just ideas and suggestions that have worked for at least one
person (me) so use this information at your own risk.
{pp}
If you still want to fix that shift key or letter S... then there is another thing to consider before
attacking the traces on the flimsy film of plastic within. If a key works, but only with unacceptable
force, it may just be that the pads for the key in question have literally rubbed off the plastic to
some degree. You can easily remedy this by "colouring in" the worn pads with the darkest lead
pencil you can find. Voila, instant mysterious conductive membrane pad.
{pp}
For the rest of us, you will need the following materials:{p}
{fixed}
- multimeter/ohm meter
- about 15cm of SOFT, flexible, multi core hook-up wire (flex)
- side cutters/strippers
- tweezers
- knife (not exceedingly sharp, e.g.. steak knife)
- electrical or masking tape (the weaker the adhesive the better)
- the finest needle you can get your hands on.
     31G BD-Fine diabetic disposable needles are perfect ;^)
- 3mm phillippes head screwdriver, and somewhere to put scores and
     scores of small screws without losing them
- incredible patience
{pp}
{def}
Apart from being printed on an insulated material, there is also a thin film of insulation over the
top of the tracks we will be trying to fix. Obviously, there will be no need for the soldering iron.
Instead, the aim is to locate where a track stops conducting and where it starts again. This doesn't 
have to be exact, as long as we steer clear of the bad area.
{pp}
Firstly, write down on paper which keys are not working properly, and their position amongst the
other keys. Your best friend during this exercise will be the ESC menu - because pressing any key
will toggle NTSC/PAL display mode. You could go along pressing every key in the ESC menu and
verify which ones doesn't work before you do anything. Then turn your computer off and 
dismantle the keyboard. You may be operating the computer with the keyboard dismantled soon,
so don't worry about unplugging it.
{pp}
Take the membrane and sit it back in it's metal back plate. You may also want to plug the circuit
board back in. Take care to snap the connector lock out when you remove the circuit board from
the membrane, and vice versa. The next step now is to find which track is faulty, starting at the
faulty key. You will notice there are two pads. The tracks on at least one of these pads will
hopefully go to other keys on the keyboard that do work. If you can identify this pad, then you
know the opposite pad has the track that is causing the trouble. Follow this track as far as you
can. It will eventually end up back to the MPU board. Along the way, there should be 
discoloration, perhaps in the form of a coffee stain.
{pp}
We have to expose a small section of the track just before the suspect area. Very gently use your
not-so-sharp knife to scrape the top insulating layer off. The best way is to avoid rubbing the
track itself. You can usually start beside the track you want to expose, get some of the insulation
lifted, and then peel away what you need. You only need a very small amount exposed, enough
to get your multimeter probe onto.
{pp}
Now place one probe on the pad, and another on the area that you've just exposed. Hopefully
you will get a reading of less than 1K ohms. Now carefully expose an area of the track just after
the suspect area. If your guess was right, then you should get a very high reading, probably off
the scale. You will now use the two exposed areas of track to make an electrical connection.
{pp}
This is the most fiddly part, perhaps if you are good at sewing you won't have too much trouble.
The best way, I've found, is to prick two tiny holes through the plastic as close as possible to
either side of the track. Don't worry if you hit the track with one of the holes, this probably helps
with electrical contact.. probably. Next feed a single strand of wire from your flex up from the 
bottom through one hole and down from the top through the other. Pull it fairly tight. I've done 
about six of these and all seem to work first go. Underneath the membrane, take the strand of
wire to the other exposed area and do the same. You've now repaired a broken track!
{pp}
If you've got more keys to repair then start the process again, keeping in mind you will have to
insulate the strands of wire with masking or electrical tape. I've found that strong adhesive tape 
tends to lift large portions of insulation off the top layer if you ever have to remove it. Also, you 
might want to test your keyboard thoroughly before you put all those screws back in - just sit the
assembly with all the keys in it back on top of the membrane, plug your cables back into the
circuit board (don't forget the 0v wire) and test each key again at the ESC menu.
{pp}
Happy typing!
{pp}
- Paul Harvey (paul@aioworld.com)
{pp}
Disclaimer: Whilst to the best of my knowledge the information presented here is true and 
accurate, it might not be.. use at your own risk.
{pp}