*3@4

                                AMIGATE REVIEW*2@1
                                ==============

@5
This  issue,   I  shall  try and interest you in  a  small  contact  manager
specifically for Aminet.

Namely,   AmyGate.   AmyGate  as I have said,   is  a  contact  manager  for
Aminet.The         archive         can         be          found          at
@1http://members.xoom.com/AmosFactory/front.html .
@5
It  is written by @2Pietro Ghizzoni@5.  I don't know if the programme is written
in Amos or not,  but don't let that fact put you off.  It comes in an easily
installed archive.

Simply de-archive it and move the directory where you wish.  The only  other
thing  that  the  programme  requires is the@1 easylife.library@5  and  this  is
included  in  the archive.  Simply move the library to your libs  directory.
Double clicking on the AmyGate icon will bring up the icon bar.  you  should
now configure your prefs. Again, this is very easy.


Fill  in  your name,  e- mail address,smtp server and other easy  to  answer
questions like which Aminet server to use ,where you want to put  the  files
you download,  the path to your viewer of choice for the @1"readmes"@5 etc.   It
even  gives  you a choice of whether to use a proxy server  or  not.   Don't
worry  if  you can't remember the url of an Aminet server as the prefs  give
you the option of the USA,Italian,Swedish or German servers.

I  forgot  to  mention that AmyGate also comes with 3 different versions  of
toolbar icons,  two Glowicon and one MagicWb version.  All of them look very
nice ,so its a matter of your personal preference which you use.  Save  your
prefs now.

Now go online and try out the programme.  Moving your mouse over any of  the
buttons gives you its purpose at the top of the menu bar.  Simple  and  very
effective.  You can choose to see the recent uploads ,  last 7 days uploads,
the charts or your bookmarked files,  the file search or even if you want to
rate a programme.
@5
The  last  button  takes you into the prefs.  Try the recent uploads....this
brings up the network window.  AmyGate will probably tell you at this  point
that you don't have a logfile and will create one.  Now click on update.  It
will  update  the  logfile from the server of your choice  and  display  the
uploads.

The  logfile  for the server is separate e.g.  if you try out  each  of  the
servers,it  will generate different logfiles for each.  This  is  useful  as
some  mirrors are not updated as quickly as others.  All files are displayed
in  the  directory that they reside in,  the same as  you  would  see  in  a
browser if you went to Aminet.

You  can  now  delve  into  the   directories  and  if  a  file  takes  your
fancy,download it by simply right clicking on it or view the  readme,   rate
it or bookmark it.

The  guide file that comes with the archive is very clear about the workings
of  the  programme ,although I don't think it would be impossible for anyone
to work out how to use it without it.  The programme works very well and  is
cleverly  laid out.The addition of the help at the top of the  menu  bar  to
show what every button does is excellent.
@5
All  those  people  hoping  for me to tell you about  strange  bugs  in  the
programme will be disappointed.  Not only haven't I found any ,but  this  is
an  excellent little programme which should be an example to everyone in how
to make things intuitive!

It  even  allows  you to sub or unsub from the digest mail  for  Aminet  and
gives the option of monthly or weekly.  The only thing not supported yet  is
the ability to upload, but this is being worked on.

The  programme isn't freeware ,  but all the author asks is that people  who
use it send him a postcard!  Hardly going to put anyone to too much trouble.

If  you  want the ability to check on Aminet and want to do it easily,   try
out this programme.
@3
                       An excellent utility for anyone!#8
                       --------------------------------
