*3@7    
                              Ibrowse 2.2 Review*2@1
    
                               Software review
@3
Ibrowse  2  has  been reviewed in these pages before@5 (last issue actually)@3,
but even since then,  its undergone a couple of updates, and thankfully more
than  just some 'maintenance releases'.  But instead of writing a whole  new
review, I'll go over some of the cool new features in v 2.2.

I've never been a big fan of ibrowse to be honest.  Its not the Gui,  or the
speed,  or the ugly default button set, its because it just plain refused to
cooperate with my miggy.  Every time I ran Ibrowse to look at even a  simple
site,  it would guru, forcing me to either kill it and carry on with Aweb or
Voyager, or reboot. It seems I wasn't the only one with this problem, nearly
everyone  I  spoke  to  on IRC had a habit of saying 'Damn,   gotta  reboot,
ibrowse crashed me again'.

After it invalidated my net@1:@3  partition for the 43rd time, I eventually gave
up and moved over to voyager.  I've been poking my head over the fence every
so  often  to see how Ibrowse is doing,  but from 1.22 up to 2.1,  it  still
seemed to crash constantly on my Amiga.  Then Ibrowse 2.2 got released. I've
now  since  moved back over to Ibrowse and registered my copy,  because  put
simply, its great. Lets start from the top:
@4
                                 The New Bits
@3
First of all,  it seems they've got the crashes sorted once and for all.  In
the last few months of using 2.2,  I've only had one guru, which you have to
admit is pretty good,  especially for a hacked up machine such as mine. Even
netscape and explorer crash my mums iMac more.  Also, the javascript library
seems to have been given a good cleaning out,  because as far as I can  see,
its rock solid.

The  javascript  itself has been upgraded a lot since  2.1  too.   It  still
throws  up  errors all over the place,  but if you read the manual,   you'll
know  that  its  supposed to do this,  even on tiny  errors  that  shouldn't
affect  the  running of the code at all.  If you turn them off,  most  sites
work nicely.  There are still one or two sites that dont work right,  but on
the whole its brilliant. Compared to voyager, its light years ahead.

And another thing is that it actually HAS a manual now,  and its nice.  Well
written but not too microsoft-ish,  clear and to the point.  I still  didn't
work out how to get the spoofing to work though..  even if it did give me an
in depth description of what it does#1 :)@3 Font Remapping




One major improvement in 2.2 is the cool font mapping feature.  Now you  can
see sites as they were meant to be seen.  Until now,  ibrowse only used  two
fonts...   Times and courier.  But embedded inside a lot of pages  are  tags
like: @5 <font face=arial>@3. This tells the browser to use a different font@1(in
this case,  arial)@3 to render the text on the page. Ibrowse would ignore them
up  until now,  and continue using Times to display all the text.  Providing
you've actually got the right fonts installed in your Fonts@1:@3  directory, you
can create a new font class in the ibrowse settings and assign that font  to
it.  So when Ibrowse comes accross a page asking for a specific font,  it'll
use that instead of times.  After that,  you'll suddenly notice 75% of pages
looking completely different from what you're used to.  Most of the time its
pretty trivial but on a lot of sites it makes a huge difference.
@4
                                  Other Bits
@3
There  are a few other nice little changes,  most of then you'll  notice  in
the settings window.  You can now choose the maximum amount of downloads you
want  at  any one time.  This is completely separate from the normal network
connections  you  already have,  which are kept  for  downloading  web  page
images and html.



If  you  download  more  files than the maximum  number  you  chose  in  the
settings,  the most recent one gets moved into a queue.  Once there's a slot
free, it gets moved from the queue into the list of current downloads.

The  download window itself has been updated to reflect this change.  Theres
now  four  tabs on the window,  'pending downloads'@5 (files that are actually
getting  transferred)@3,'Queued downloads',  'Failed downloads' and 'Completed
Downloads',  which should be pretty obvious to figure out.  It also has nice
little  leds  which flash beside each file,  telling you the status  of  the
transfer.

Another  change that I noticed is that you can choose whether  to  use  your
proxy  for  resuming downloads.  Apparently theres sometimes  problems  with
resuming files if you're using a proxy server,  so I suppose this  can  only
be a good thing.
@4
                                    So..?
@3
The  only  thing  that lets ibrowse down is the fact that it  STILL  doesn't
have an internal SSL module.  When trying to view a secure site, you get the
message  'AmiSSL  is not installed or is too old'.  I looked  around  for  a
package     called     AmiSSl,      and     found     its     homepage    at
@1http://www.bigfoot.com/~TheAntony/A miSSL/@3.

The  only problem is that the version required to work with Ibrowse 2.2 isnt
even  out yet!  An internal version like the one in Ibrowse 1.x is something
that 2.2 is sorely lacking.  Alternatively if you use Miami, you can install
MiamiSSL and use that, although I've not had a chance to test that one out.

Overall  though,  I love it.  It may not have flash yet,  and there's  still
some  work to be done in some areas,  but in my opinion this is the  browser
with  the most 'finished' feel about it,  and damn its fast.  It also  still
looks  the  nicest of the three on an AGA machine,  and the  tabbed  browser
mode is cool.  Try the demo for a while.  You might like it.  The standalone
price is too steep though, but if you're upgrading it aint too bad.
@5
          Ibrowse 2.2
          Requirements   :    MUI, Hard disk, 68020, preferably an amiga ;)
          Price:         :    £12.95 (upgrade)  £34.95 (standalone)
          From           :   http://www.hisoft.co.uk/amigashop/ibrowse.html
]5@2          
                            Written by David White]1@1
                                   (@3ZimZum@1)
         
