*3@3
                                   SCANNERS*2@1

                              Parallel or SCSI?
@5
Many people would like a flatbed scanner for their Amiga,  but are stuck  when
deciding between a parallel and SCSI model.
@3
                             Heres what I think@1:
@5
In  general  parallel scanners are much slower as the parallel port  can  only
transfer  a  small  amount  of  data   at  once  compared  to  the  fast  SCSI
counterparts.

Parallel scanners are usually much cheaper than SCSI as the computer interface
is  less sophisticated and the hardware is often cheaper.  The mechanism tends
to  be  slightly  lighter built,  sometimes the casing and lid  are  flimsier.
Often the cheaper mechanisms are more noisy too.

SCSI  scanners  are  generally more expensive  due  to  the  extra  electronic
components required for the SCSI interface.  I guess SCSI models are aimed  at
more  higher end users then parallel models,  so the mechanics  of  these  are
usually more robust and quieter as a high end user would do more scanning than
the average home user.

In short,  if you already have a SCSI interface in your Amiga,  I would highly
advise you to pay a little extra money and get a SCSI scanner instead. It will
most likely last longer, work faster have quieter operation.

Scanning times depend on the resolution and size of the scanned document.   It
would be around a minute or less for SCSI and usually two or more minutes  for
the parallel version.
#2
                                   Warning!
@5
Some  parallel scanners require an@3 EPP@1 (enhanced parallel port)@5  to  function.
The  standard  Amiga  motherboard port is  not  up  to  this  so  you'll  need
something like an IOblix EPP adaptor.  There is a clock port version  for  the
A1200 and also Zorro versions for the big box Amigas.

If getting a parallel scanner it would be best to check the technical specifications 
of the device before shelling out your hard earned dosh.

A  better  idea would be to@1 "borrow"@5 the scanner on demo for  a  day  or  two.
Sometimes you can persuade a salesman to let you do this!
@3
                              Scanning software
@5
By far the most popular seems to be ScanQuix,  the latest version being 5.  It
supports many models of SCSI, parallel and serial scanners.

The  full  version is available on CD from Eyetech for £59.95  or  ScanQuix  4
users can upgrade to version 5 for £34.95.

If buying a scanner and ScanQuix separately,  it is best to check with Eyetech
if the model of scanner you intend buying is supported first.

ScanQuix  5  has  many  of  the  features that various  PC  scanning  software
packages  provide.   Things  like colour correction,   image  preview,   image
rotation,  flipping,  contrast and brightness adjustments. To date there is no
scanning  software  for the Amiga which offers optical character  recognition.
Hopefully we'll be seeing OCR in a future version of ScanQuix.

To  run ScanQuix 5 you'll need at least an 020 running OS 3.0 and 6Mb of  fast
memory. It also has Warp Up acceleration if you have a PPC running it.

TurboPrint  version  7.1  is also a must for printing  those  high  resolution
colour  images.  This can also be purchased from Eyetech for £38.95.  Upgrades
from older versions are also available at lower prices than the full V7.1.
@3
                               Popular scanners
@5
A  cheap  parallel model is the Mustek 600 CP Unfortunately this  requires  an
enhanced  parallel port but Eyetech have a good package deal  for  this  model
scanner along with ScanQuix 5 AND an IOblix for only £149.95 which is a  great
starting price for the home scanning enthusiast.

The drawbacks is that it's slow and fairly noisy in operation.  Resolution  is
lacking slightly at 300 x 600 DPI.  This is fine for scanning things for  your
web page or just for adding low res images into your letters and projects.  It
will  still of course scan a full colour photo at an A4 size but it will  look
a little fuzzy compared to higher quality scans.


 A better quality SCSI scanner is in the likes of the Epson Perfection 1200s.

It  is  also a full colour A4 flatbed,  but this offers a resolution  of  1200
DPI.   It  is  of course much faster than the Mustek parallel  unit  and  also
whisper  quiet  in  operation.  It is quite pricey at  £186.38  excluding  VAT
considering  you'll need to buy ScanQuix on top of this  but  the  faster  and
quieter operation justifies this extra cost.

@3
                             For more information
@5
Take  a look at May's@4 Amiga Active magazine@1 (issue 8)@5  on pages 37 to 41.   It
contains  an  excellent review of ScanQuix as well as  5  different  scanners,
including the two models I've just talked about.

          You can find out more about ScanQuix at@1 http://www.rbm.de@5

                   Or TurboPrint at@1 http://www.irseesoft.de
@2
                                 Written by@1:@3
                               Anthony Hoffman
                               38 Marine Parade
                                    Bluff
                                 New Zealand
@5
               Questions and comments to@1:@4 ahoffman@clear.net.nz
@5
Special  thanks  to Amiga Active magazine,  for the excellent scanner  article
which I used for reference.

      Subscribe today!  Online subscription at@1 http://www.amigactive.com
