This History of Trogladite Software


Trogladite Software started life in February 1996 as 'NBA Productions'. This
stood for Nothing But Amiga Productions, and was simply a name used for simple
games I was attempting to make at the time, none of which ever got finished.
As I (Neil) got more familiar with programming, I changed the name to
Trogladite Software in late 1996.

However, it was still to be a long time before we hit the sort of userbase we
now get for our products. The first thing I ever tried to do for Trogsoft
was a diskmag, called Amiga Beginner, aimed at beginners (obviously :). This
didn't take off, although it was released into the public domain and if anyone
has a copy, I'd be very grateful to see it again :)

I did try making a few games, one of which was called 'Extreme Violence' and
featured some very technical programming (or, at least by my standards back
then :). It was basically a 'viewed from above UFO Enemy Unknown clone'. It
even had the 'if there's a wall in the way, you can't seen an alien' features
(which was very hard to do). But it never got finished.

By now it was late 1997. Nothing else happened until early 1998, when I
started contributing to Amiga Format CD's with a few crappy program's I'd
made either in AmigaDOS or AMOS. I contributed 3 times before going quiet,
and starting on a new diskmag called World Of Amiga in September 1998. I was
planning to make this a brilliant launch issue for the mag, so it would be
jam packed, but all was lost when my hard disk broke and lost everything...
or was it...

It was December 1998 now and I was finally on the Internet. I had been trying
to publicise the diskmag's launch (I'd managed to find a pre-release copy of
WOA on a disk which only had a few of the articles on it, but it was
sufficient for one issue). The advertising didn't go so well, and only 14
people downloaded it... Undeterred, I started on a second issue.

About halfway through the issue, I met Sam Brookes online, and he became
Co-editor for the mag (and still is). We finished issue 2, and sucessfully
advertised it, gaining 398 readers from the Trogsoft site alone. Sam ran an
organisation called 'AMI-Gerbil Software' which had made various games for
Amiga Format's Reader Games section. I met some of his 'associates' like
Peter Measham and Keith Owen.

Trogladite Software had been putting out thousands (well, several) news
releases per week to Amiga.org, who advised me to limit it to 1 per week or
people would get sick of the name Trogladite Software. We started to release
products such as UnInstaller, AddAssign and UCM, and me and Sam started
speculating about joining forces.

Just after the merge was completed, we advertised for more WOA writers, and
were got replies from Joe Solinsky, Frank Mathieson and Phil Ellis, who are
still part of the team today. We later advertised for more actual Trogsoft
staff, and we got Scott Fulford (graphics) and various others...

That brings us nearly up to date. A couple of months after we'd advertised
for the first batch of staff, we advertised for more, taking us to a grand
total of 31 members, and some very skilled Graphicians, Musicians and
Developers, along with some very useful testers and the World Of Amiga team.

During all of this, we have taken over a prominent Disk Magazine group called
Point Productions, along with one of the longest running Amiga disk magazines
ever, called The-Point, which we intend to re-release to the world very
soon...

We are now working on several commercial releases, including one top secret
project, and one space adventure/strategy game called Recovery:2190 and we
hope to make UCM 2 commercial if it is good enough.




