Amiga News
In Association with Amiga.org
-----------------------------

----------------
JUNES AMIGA NEWS
----------------

Wieout2097 Screenshots
You can find Wipeout screenshots now at the Digital Images website
which can be found at www.digital-images.demon.co.uk

New Amiga Mag
Finally, we're back up to two Amiga printed magazines (or we soon
will be) as AmigActive is launched (hopefully) soon. It's website,
however, is online now and can be visited at www.amigactive.com

Microde Solutions
Anyone want a copy of Fusion or PCX for their PPC? Well, place a
pre-order with Microde and you could well get one. Their site
is at www.microde-solutions.com/amiga/amiga.html

---------------
MAYS AMIGA NEWS
---------------

Amiga.org News Disgrace
The Amiga.org news database was disgracefully hacked in the early days
of this month. Hackers, who I believe aren't Amiga fans, got very close
to destroying Amiga.org's reputation by hacking the database and posting
an offensive mail about the Amiga and the excellent Miami. Thanks to
the Amiga.org teams' quick action, the messages were removed and a prompt
apology posted on to the site.

Trogsoft Looking for CGI
We're looking for people who can write Perl CGI scripts for our site to
do things. In particular we'll be wanting a page where people can add
links, a form emailer script, and a number of scripts which we'll
tell you about when we think of them. Want to apply? Send an email
to trogladite@trogsoft.freeserve.co.uk

Rebol for PPC
Looks like the Rebol team (you know, Carl Sassenrath etc. :) are going
to be making a version of Rebol for the PPC powered Amiga. Good eh? :)
Check out www.rebol.com

Amiga Inc. Presence
Amiga Inc. will be present at Amiwest (in the United States) and
World Of Amiga 99 (no relation :). So expect some sort of announcement
and don't forget we'll have a report from WOA99 next issue.

Video Titling
Extreme 1.5 is now available. It can calculate backgrounds in realtime
and is perfect for all you video titling people out there. Check out
www.idealia.net/darkage/extreme.html

AAA Awards Now Open
Yep, this years annual AA Awards are open for voting. This year, the
UK nominees are Ben Vost (Amiga Format Editor), Neil Bothwick (of
Amiga ISP Wirenet) and Chris Wiles of Active Technologies.
www.aaa-awards.org   - vote and you could win lots of prizes!!!

New Amigas
Amiga Inc have released a concept sketch of a possible route that
they could take with the next Amigas. Take a look at these URLs
www.amiga.de/pics/product/concept/01_kyoto.jpg
                                  02_kyoto.jpg

ImageFX 4
For those of you who haven't heard, ImageFX 4 has been announced and
now supports Animation. I'm sure that'll please a lot of you.
www.novadesign.com

DOpus Update
You can obtain a Directory Opus Magellan II update free from
www.gpsoft.com.au   enjoy :)

------------------
APRIL'S AMIGA NEWS
------------------

Settlers 2 Abandoned
Titan Computers seem to have abandoned Settlers ][ project because of
Bluebytes decision to stop them. This is because Bluebyte were afraid that
they'd have to put in too much work on the porting project, which is not
the case, as Titan have said all along. Check out our campaign to get
Settlers back on track.

Alive Mediasoft Have a new website!
Yes, that's right, Alive have got their selves a new website which can be
found at http://www.innotts.co.uk/alive-mediasoft/. Upon going to visit the
site (one of the perks of realising I could do some articles in my spare
time at college, and keep up to date with my POP3 email at the same time),
It seems very well organised, and looks pretty good. Go check it out.

PCX, FUSION, PPC, Etc.
I love these acronym titles :) Ok, basically, what I'm rabbiting on about
is the fact that Blittersoft are looking into making the PCX emulator for
the NG Amiga PPC variety of machines. Ang they're looking into doing the
same for the Fusion Mac emulator as well. Look forward to them. Fill out
Blittersoft's survey at www.blittersoft.com/fusppcq.htm

Dreamcast Logo Conflict
Apparently, the Dreamcast console may have to revise it's logo because of
similarities with Amiga company, Escenas. Of course, I would have preferred
it if they'd have released the console with the logo, and Escenas sued them.
But that won't happen :(

T-ZerO
The T-ZerO website is now open. The game, which is been ported by Clickboom
now has an official website. Check it out at clickboom.com

Chief Technology
Amiga have some information about their new Chief Technology manager. You
can find the actual information in another article in the news directory.
Check it out.

Commonwealth Games News
We have a lot of news from Amiga Inc. this issue. This latest one is about
the sponsorship which Amiga were giving to last years commonwealth games.
Wanna read the article, check out the Amiga website (www.amiga.com)

Gloom3 Available for Free!
Well, nearly. You have to buy AminetCD 30 and you get a complimentary copy
of Gloom 3 on the CD. Rest assured we have asked Gaz about this in our
extensive interview with him which you can find in the Features directory.

Want OS3.5 First?
By the time you read this, OS3.5 will be in the Beta testing stage, and
while Amiga Inc. prevent me from telling you anything about it, when Beta
Testing is over, I will be amongst the first to review AmigaOS3.5 for you.
You can pre-order OS3.5 from Blittersoft at www.blittersoft.com

WOA Reaches Record Circulation
OK, There are actually no charts for readership statistics on Amiga
diskmags, but thanks to Amiga.org's wonderful news service, WOA now have an
incredibly high circulation figure. With 45 downloads in the first 7 hours
of WOA3 becoming available, we are doing very well. And Issue 2 got nearly
400 readers (398 to be precise).

New WOA Staff
New this issue, please welcome 3 new writers to WOA. Frank Mathieson,
Joe Solinsky and Shawn McOwen who are all entering as Technical writers.
Joe will be treating you to a regular Amiga related column and various
features from time to time, Frank and Shawn will be endeavouring to review
loads of serious products and will also be writing features from time to
time.

First PPC Commercial Game
Eat The Whistle is being updated to support PPC. Therefore it will be the
first Amiga PPC commercial game, and based on that, I would have thought
that quite a bit of exposure would be generated which can only be a good
thing.

Bouncy Amigas
A new Amiga related Website has been set up called Amiga Bounce which you
can find at www.freez.com. It's a place where Amiga owners can meet up and
chat about anything from Games to... er... well, anything, really :)

Amiga Matches?!?
Yes, it's true, in a particularly strange publicity stunt, Amiga Inc have
released the Amiga Matches. They come in Boing Ball shaped packs, by the
way :)

LhA Update
Version 2.1 of LhA is available now. You can get it from lha.warped.com

#trogsoft
Visit the Trogladite Software IRC channel from time to time (particulary
weekends) and you'll no doubt find one of the WOA writers, or members of
Trogladite Software there. #trogsoft on Afternet.

