{backimage bg.iff}
{center}
{subhead}Form Factor - meaningful evolution for amigans on the shop...{def}{p}
Article by Shane Ponting
{left}
{pp}
Several of you will be eyeing the amigaONE motherboards, perhaps even
planning your new highspeed system.  Adding new hardware is nothing
new to the amiga world but dealing with a common form factor is.  Up
until now you knew hardware by its amiga model - ie This accelerator
is for an A1200 or this PCI Buscard is for an A4000T.  There will be
no such thing as "Hardware for the amigaONE".  You have entered the
world of standard form factors.
{pp}
ATX - The amigaONE motherboard is ATX form factor.  This can mean
several things but generally defines the length/width of the
motherboard, the location of the screw holes and the Power connector
present on the motherboard.  Almost every motherboard in a standard
tower PC will be ATX.  What this means for you is that you dont need
to put your amigaONE into any special case or buy a special PSU.  You
simply walk on down to the local PC store and choose the sexiest "PC
Case" you can find with the knowledge that your amigaONE will fit
snugly inside and will remain fully expandable.  Same applies when
choosing a PSU, choose by Brand, wattage - the PC world of hardware
is now your oyster too, relish in the choice!.  My personal
favourites for Cases and PSUs (Power Supply Units) are Lian-Li and
Enermax respectively.  For the more ambitious of you, case modding is
worth a look as you can turn your amigaONE system into an eye
catching spawn of artwork that will awe all those who sight it.
Everything that u can buy t o modify the cosmetic approach of a PC
Case now applies to you.
{pp}
Expansion cards - whilst not as free flowing as cases and PSUs you
are dealing with the common form factor of PCI and AGP which reduces
the cost significantly.  I have seen a Voodoo3 3000 PCI priced the
same as a CyberVision 64/3D.  The Voodoo is considerably faster than
the CVision but because the CVision is amiga specific its cost is
rather high.  The amiga world has been freed of the need to purchase
essentials like GFX cards in a proprietary form, an advance which
will certainly support our survival.  I said this is not as free
flowing as the Cases because you still need drivers to support your
cards however recent advancements in the OS4 development have meant
this also becomes a non-issue in context of the graphics cards.
{pp}