Colonisation

Here is a complete solution to this game. It requires you to cheat
though, and was written in 1995.

                      COLONIZATION TIPS AND CHEATS!!!

   The first thing you need to know is what your first colony is going
to be based on (what is will produce the most of). For the sake of
this article lets say, Lumber. So you go and find a place by the sea
with a little tree icon on it. Then you press 'B' and if you want to
cheat (and if you have set the landmass to small) name the colony:

        Charlotte

With a capital 'C' and you will get 50000 Gold and be able to see all!
You can also access all the european reports and even their colonies.
You can go and visit their home ports and make them bankrupt. But for
now, we need the money. So, off you go to London (Or Wherever) and
buy a Galleon and A Frigate and A Privateer! Next you load 6 people
onto the galleon and equip them all with horses and then 6 onto the
Frigate and Privateer and they must be Colonists (such as lumberjacks 
or ore miners) and take them all back to your colony. 

Then you can set up the Colonists to do things that need doing.
Now you can start building. Build everything in order and if you don't 
make any tools you may aswell click on 'BUY' becuase you can Cheat as
many times as you want to. Now you have to buy some elder statesmen 
from London (or wherever) and bring them back. Equip all your Scouts with 
muskets and repeat the Galleon process again. Fortify all these 
Dragoons around your colony and then go and make peace treatys with
Indians and Fellow Europeans. Next put your Elder Statesmen at the 
Town hall to generate Liberty Bells and then go about your usual 
business of Buying dragoons and things until your Rebel Sentiment 
increases to 50%. Make sure you have a fortress now and then Save
and Declare Indipendence. The Royal Expeditionary Force will arrive
and then, if you have enough units, the Enemy will not even get a 
turn. Your Fortresses will open fire on the Tory ships and eventually 
you will Win.

