@6{World of Spectrum CD-ROM
@3}By Craig Daines
      
@7      
      Available from: Craig Rothwell
      Order Details may be found at:@6 http://www.void.jump.org
@5      
      If  you are a Spectrum Emulator enthusiast you would be wise to visit
      The  World of Spectrum website located at: @6 http://www.void.jump.org.@5
      The  site  has  had  rave  reviews  and is the number-one site on the
      internet  for  Spectrum  related  memorabilia  (included  games for a
      variety  of  different  emulators,  tape covers, emulators, tools and
      reviews with Spectrum celebrities of the era).
      
      I  hear  you  cry  'What's  the  point purchasing this CD' when I can
      simply download all the games from 'The World of Spectrum Website?'.
      
      Well,  the  maintainers  of  'World  of  Spectrum' do not allow users
      accessing  their  FTP  site for long periods of time, due to the fact
      many  people  were  doing  far  too  many  big  downloads and killing
      bandwidth.   You  are only allowed to download material for a limited
      time  period  only.   Frequent  abuse of this, and you will be banned
      from  the  site.   By  purchasing  this double CD set, you'll help to
      support Craig's continued efforts in compiling the CD (at £9 it's not


      exactly  expensive,  and  you'll  save  heaps  on your telephone bill
      downloading everything.
      
      For  £9 Craig Rothwell has worked closely with the maintainers of the
      site  and  including  all the new material on a double-CD, containing
      some  8,000  games  (for  you to play with Spectrum emulators for the
      Amiga  and  PC).  Disk 2 is filled with Spectrum music saved directly
      to .mp3 format, clip-art, tape cover scans, and interviews.
@5      
      I purchased The 'Speccy '97' CD-ROM ages ago, but this is much better
      value  for  money.   The  majority  of games are saved in .TAP (tape)
      files,  and  Z80  format, which can be loaded into Ian Greenway's ASP
      Spectrum  Emulator.  TZX format emulator files are included, although
      ASP does not support these as the moment, although X128 does.
      
      The  contents of the two CD-ROM's are well laid out, and all Spectrum
      Emulator  files  are  sorted  into  appropriate directories, although
      don't expect to be able to navigate around the CD easily:  the CD was
      created  on  a  PC  and  hence you won't find any icons for drawer or
      files,  therefore a suitable directory manager such as Directory Opus
      Magellan would be highly recommended.
      
      The  double  CD  'World  of  Spectrum' CD-ROM compilation comes on 2x
      CDR's, in a jewel case and professionally printed cover and CD label.
      I've  looked at a lot of Spectrum Emulator CD's in the past, this has
      to  be  the biggest and best:  over 8,500 Spectrum games ready to run
      straight  from  the  CD.  My only disappointment was since Craig only
      catered  for PC and other OS' but their are no Amiga-related Spectrum
      Emulators  / file manipulation tools on the CD.  I've mentioned this,
      and  pointed  him  towards  the  Aminet server, so hopefully the next
      update of 'The World of Spectrum CD' will included both emulators and
      tools  for  Amiga  users  too.   There  isn't really much more to say
      really...
@2      
      Presentation:
@5      
      £9 gets you 2x CD's filled with Speccy games, in a jewel case, cover,
      and a professionally printed CD.
@2      
      Ease of Use:
@5      
      No  Spectrum  emulators  are  included  on  the World of Spectrum CD.
      You'll  need to download either ASP / Speccylator or ZXAM from Aminet
      to  play them.  Both CD's have been compiled on a PC, so don't expect
      to  be  able  to  easily  navigate the CD - therefore a suitable file
      manager is highly recommended.
@2      
      Value For Money:
@5      
      2x  CD's  filled  to  the  brim  with  over  8,500 games, .MP3, maps,
      solutions,  interview  with  Speccy  programmers  and  tools  for the
      majority  of  different  platform's and OS'.  This is the @1biggest and
      best@5  compilation  of  ZX Spectrum material you are ever going to get
      your hands on.  If your a nostalgia fan, and want to relive those old
      classic games, go buy your copy now!