DOpus Magellan II Review

I have never been more glad to see the familiar, old, dated, but excellent
Workbench screen in my entire life! Directory Opus is a tad too slow
when it comes to certain things. Especially since every time a new
lister opens, you seem to lose hundreds of bytes of memory, which really
slows down your system.

I suppose it's to be expected with 2MB of chip ram and no graphics card.
I assume that since graphics cards have their own memory, they will
be much faster when used with Opus. However, on a standard machine,
even accellerated to 50MhZ, DOpus Magellan II, no matter how good, is
still very, VERY slow.

I remember the day when I realised I could add a button to the button
back in DOpus which would make my computer boot into Workbench, and
an Icon in Workbench which let me boot into DOpus. Very handy,
especially since I need to use both. It's not possible to use DOpus
on it's own because of it's lack of speed.

And ever since adding this button, DOpus now crashes when I try to
boot into it. So I had to install it again. Now, aside from the point
of slowness, DOpus is a really excellent product. The features which
it includes are not rivalled in any other product available on any
other computer (as far as I know).

There are 3 modes of operations for the listers. Action mode, Icon
Action mode and Icon mode. I hate the idea of listers actually listing
the contents of directories by name, and so I prefer to use Icon
action mode. But DOpus refuses to open listers in this mode, so I'm
forced to use Icon mode which is just like using Workbench. Shame, really.

Dr. Greg Perry (of GPSoft, the people who produce DOpus) actually
told me that he wished people would buy the product. To be perfectly
honest, unless you require the features of DOpus or have a high end
machine which you want to show off with, then Workbench would probably
do you. What are you going to do with DOpus when the new improved
Workbench 3.5 comes out? Not buy it, or dump DOpus and waste £50?

There are really a lot of decisions to be made when buying such an
expensive piece of software, and really, I think GPSoft should release
some form of PD Demo of it to help people decide whether to spend
money which might be a complete waste. It's up to you whether you
buy it or not.

89%
