OctaMED Soundstudio 2 Preview

It seems that good ol' Teijo Kinnunen has left the development of
OctaMED to two others, who seem to be doing a good job from the demo
we've seen here.

Two really noticable changes that you see when you startup are:

  1) The whole interface is contained in just one window now
  2) A different font is used by default

At present, you find that there's no notation editor for you to play
with. This was always one of the more buggy features of OctaMED
anyway. Let's hope they've either got it working, or removed it!

Another really noticable change is the transition from text only
buttons to graphical buttons. Whether this is a good thing or not
remains to be seen, but now the whole thing looks distinctly
empty button-wise.

It would be nice to have some sort of help bubble when you hold the
pointer over a button because it is hard to make out what a lot of
them do. The whole interface has moved from standard Intuition
and Gadtools, to another one. I think it's probably ClassAct or
something, and that means you get the benefits of pop up menus as
standard rather than those awful cycle gadget thingies.

When running in PAL:Hires mode, you find that when you want to look
at the edit menu, it takes about half a second to display the menu
because Intuition has to go through it, and sort it out. That's because
it's so damn long!

The menus have gone through a whole revamp, and it'll take a little
while before you get used to them if you are a hardened OMSS1 fan.
Things like volume control and tempo have moved to the 'Song' menu
and things like that.

Another thing you'll notice when you first start up is the removal
of those annyingly cluttered '0's you used to get in the note tracker
where you could place volume controlling values and stuff like that.
Remember?

001: -C- 0000000

has now changed to

001: -C- .......
002: --- .......

which not only serves to make the whole thing look like a Hex editor,
but does clean up the screen somewhat. When playing songs, one thing
that you never got before was slow down when you tried to do
something else (eg, play a note in non-edit mode). The programmers
are going to HAVE to clear up this slow down which now occurs before
they release the program because it's just not acceptable! It's
like Windows playing MIDI files while you scroll down a windows
view. The MIDI file slows down dramatically!

However, despite the glitches, I'm sure the programmers will be doing
everything in their power to stop bugs getting through in the final
version, and stay tuned for more updates to this article in the
coming issues.

For more information visit: www.octamed.co.uk
