              THE LATEST ON ESCOM IN THE U.S.A. 
         BROUGHT TO YOU BY DARK UNICORN PRODUCTIONS 
 
Since this information didn't really belong in this month's 
Amiga Link Games (it isn't really entertainment based, but 
lots of people will find it interesting anyway). 
 
Better Concepts Inc. has spoken directly to ESCOM's U.S. 
advisor, Ed Goff (for published information about Mr. Goff, 
please see the Philidelphia Examiner, June 18th 1995 edition) 
about the U.S. stance on the Amiga and I must say it is quite 
disheartening.  Just for once, can't we get someone in office 
with some passion for the Amiga and not just for money? 
 
Craig Rosenfeld of BCI reported to me that his phone call to 
Mr. Goff was quite depressing.  Most of you know that BCI is 
one of the U.S.'s last and strongest Amiga/CD32 mail order 
companies and they were certainly interested in getting their 
hands on the 2000 or so CD32's that remained in storage up in 
Philidelphia.  Mr. Goff said he would be more than HAPPY to 
sell them to BCI at the cost of only $400 (that is four 
hundred dollars) each in any quantity.  Naturally, this 
appalled BCI and when confronted with the fact that the CD32's 
competetor the Sega Saturn with more power was only priced at 
$399, Mr. Goff basically said that he isn't interested in 
selling CD32s to the home market and that he wants to sell 
them all to kiosk designers and businesses that are willing to 
pay more (is this sounding like the old C= staff to you?) for 
them.  In fact, Mr. Goff will recommend to ESCOM that no more 
CD32s *OR* A1200s to be made unless he can sell the ones 
remaining for the ridiculous high prices.  That's right.  He 
wants a ridiculous price for A1200's too (unfortunately my 
notes are a little weak and I cannot remember the price, but 
it was just under $1000). 
 
The news the Examiner reported that A4000T will be produced in 
Philidelphia, PA is absolutely true.  However, here is the 
kicker.  The price.  Are you all getting a really bad feeling 
about all this?  I am.  The street price is set to be at $3500 
(that is thirty-five hundred dollars) and that is for an 
040/25mhz processor, 6 megs of ram, and a 540 meg IDE (not 
SCSI) hard drive.  No mention of a monitor or anything like 
that with that price.  If you weren't depressed before, you 
should be now. 
 
Ed Goff is a man we need to get rid of, or at least change to 
a little softer way of thinking.  Mr. Goff is a pure business 
and money oriented man and from the conversation that was had 
with BCI, seems to care very little for little guys like BCI, 
DUP, and in essence the end user that has kept the Amiga alive 
over the last 18 months while we were waiting for a buyout.  
 
BCI has already faxed ESCOM of Germany stating their feelings 
about Mr. Goff, and we can only hope that they can see the 
light and do something about it before we are turn into 
pumpkins.  I will do my best to get Mr. Goff's fax number and 
we can bombard him with fax of facts about the Amiga market. 
 
I will certainly post more as soon as I get more word!

                            Shane Monroe  DUP
