ZDNet talks about Amiga

Some of the big news flying around the 'net at the moment is that ZDNet's
ZDTV section which is some sort of Television station which also ends
up on the net, has had their presenters talking about the Amiga. They
have an interview with Ted Wallingford, the Amiga Inc. webmaster. We
have the full transcript of this particular piece of footage... (Presenter
1 is labelled '1:' and presenter 2 is labelled '2:'. I didn't get their
names)

2: We've had an Email from Tom who asks 'Can Linux be installed on an
Amiga?' Well, you know, if there's anything secondary to Linux fans, it's
Amiga fans.

1: Oh, yes, they're an outrageous group of people

2: Wow

1: Amiga was a computer system distributed by Commodore computers in the
late '80's. Amiga went through a rocky period, Commodore went out of
business, purchased by a German company. The latest, of course is that
Gateway computers has purchased the right to Amiga. There's still a
German company making Amiga's but everybody's curious about what Gateway's
doing. People love the Amiga because it was the first multitasking,
beautiful multitasking, using the Motorola 68K chipset. It had a GUI,
a great GUI, it was a very powerful computer for it's time and I think
a lot of people liked it because of what it could do with video and
graphics, and audio, and people still use their Amiga's

2: Yep

1: Now, it's an odd idea to put a Linux box... put Linux on an Amiga, but
you can do it. RedHat of all people, the folks we talk about all the time,
who distribute our favourite Linux distribution does infact have a disk
which they call Rough Custom, a 4 CD set which includes odd ball Linux
releases which is for Power PC, Spark, and 68K Linux which is for Amiga,
Atari and older Mac computers, the 68000 based computers. They have Amiga
installers for the Linux based Amiga.

1: Now lets move on to really what is more important for people and that
is the future of the Amiga platform. On the line right now, we've got
Ted Wallingford, he does web work and he's done web work for Amiga Inc.
We called Amiga Inc. they didn't want to talk, but they said Talk to Ted,
he can give you the lowdown. Hi Ted

2: Hi Ted

Ted: Hi, how are you.

1: Oh we're great. Are you an Amiga Fan?

Ted: Well, yeah, I certainly am, and a long time user.

1: Ok, what is it about the Amiga that makes people so nuts?

Ted: Well, I think, Fleecy Moss, a long time Amiga developer best put it
as 'Simplicity', or 'Elegance through simplicity' which is pretty much
the Amiga in a Nutshell. It's a real small operating system. It doesn't
require very fast hardware to run, and the hardware that you do have is
capable of running any number of different operating systems, that are
out there right now. So flexibility is a big plus.

1: It was quite a remarkable machine, and obviously, it still is now. Was
I right in my synopsis about the Amiga state, when Commodore went bust,
then bought by a German company, and they went out of business, then
Gateway [2000] computers, the people with the cow box, bought the rights
the Amiga, is that right.

Ted: Yeah, for sure. Everybody going out of business right after they
get their hands on the Amiga is known as the Amiga curse.

1: That's too bad

Ted: But Gateway seems immune to that curse

1: They'll be around for a while. What are Gateway doing with it?

Ted: Well, right now, Gateway has formed a subsidiary called Amiga Inc.
which is comprised of about a dozen developers and executives that work
together on developing a new operating system that's going to replace
the existing Amiga OS. The new operating system is being developed in
conjunction with QNX, that's a Canadian Software manufacturer.

1: They product realtime operating systems, is that right?

Ted: Yeah, that's exactly what they do. And they're going to be
together, getting involved in some kind of development for personal
devices and maybe Set Top Box type equipment.

1: Will there be an Amiga desktop computer?

Ted: Well, according to rumours that have been spread at Amiga trade
shows, about the next Amiga, that certainly is in the plan because the
new OS is supposed to be scaleable enough to sit on everything from
a palmtop to a high end server.

2: So we're more likely to see Amiga on a palmtop?

1: or a set top box, as you said or portable devices?

Ted: I think that the consumer equipment market is going to be one of
their main targets. The best guy to talk to is Bill McEwan at Amiga
Inc. He's got tonnes of excellent details on that front...

1: Is there a website or somewhere we can find out what's going on and
keep up to date, because people have been pretty closed mouth at Amiga
Inc. because we tried to talk to them and they said 'Talk to Ted'

Ted: Well, you know just before talking to you Bill McEwan called me
and said you're only supposed to talk about Linux, so I may have already
blown my contract.

[Laughter]

2: We may owe Ted a job when we're done with all this

Ted: The best place to look is www.amiga.com which is Amiga Inc.'s web-
site and certainly qnx.com [www.qnx.com] is a very good site.

1: Hey Ted, I apprieciate it

Ted: Thankyou very much

1: It's great to find out what's going on with the Amiga and I'm really
glad to hear that something IS going on, that's great. Ted wallingford
who does contract work for amiga Inc, and to get up to date about what's
going on, amiga.com, the website for Amiga inc.
