Assembly for beginners.

Assembly is that mystical language used by so many coders.
Now you to will get to chance to learn all about it, without having to study those big & complicated 
books about it.
Assembler is the ultimate in amiga (or whatever platform) programming, but it's also the most difficult 
one to master.
Assemblyprogramming on the amiga has several advantages:
        1: It's cheap. (If you use A68k and the developers CD you'll be coding for a fifth of the price of
                e.g. stormC lite.
        2: It's fast & you've got full control of the amiga, with all it's power.
        3: You'll be amongst the professionals when it comes to exploiting your miggy.
But... you'll need a few things though:
        1: -Patience.
                This is a must have for future coders.
        2: -Intelligence.
                You'll need a comprehensive understanding of bit 
operations.
        3: -An assembler & the Commodore (Escom or Gateway 2000) Includefiles.
                You'll find two assemblers in the utilities drawer on this disk.
                The first one, snma, is freeware and made by Samu Nuojua.
                The second, A68k, is also freeware and made by Charlie Gibbs.
Unfortunately i haven't got copyright on the include files so you will need to get these yourselves.
They can be found on the Amiga Developers CD, published  by Amiga 
International.
Or alternately in the Amiga reference manuals published by Addison Wesly. (The include files are also 
included with commercial products like devpac.)
There are also other shareware assemblers, e.g. PhxAs & Barfly both are very competent and 
support up the the '060 & PPC603e.
Other useful stuff includes the linker Blink (Also in the utilities drawer).
If you do fancy some heavy reading you might want to check out the following books:
        - Amiga Rom Kernel Reference Manual: Libraries.
        - Amiga Rom Kernal Reference Manual: Devices
        - Amiga Rom Kernal Reference Manual: Includes & Autodocs.
        - Amiga Hardware reference Manual
        - Amiga User Interface Style Guide
        - The AmigaDOS Manual
With these books you'll have every thing that you need to start developing for the amiga.
Next month i'll be explaining how to install A68k & Snma + the basic functions for both.
For contributions check the file "About Mealström" or for requests and questions just write (the address 
can be found in the file "correspondence".