*3@3                                   GLASGOW*2@1

                            Interesting Buildings
@5
Victorian Glasgow was extremely eclectic architecturally.  Good examples  of
the  Greek  Revival  style are Royal College of Physicians  1845,   By  W.H.
Playfair and the Custom House 1840,  by G.L.  Taylor. The Queen's Room 1857,
by  Charles  Wilson  is a handsome temple used now as  a  Christian  Science
Church.

The  Gothic  style is seen at its most exotic in the Stock Exchange  1877,by
J.Burnet. the new Victorian materials and Techniques with glass, Wrought and
cast Iron were also ably demonstrated in the buildings of the time.  Typical
are:  Gardener's Stores 1856,by J.Baird;the Bucks Head,  Argyle Street,   an
amalgam  of  glass and cast iron;and the Eygptian Halls of 1873,   in  Union
Street, Which has a masonery framework. Both are by Alexander Thompson.

The Templeton Carpet Factory 1889,  Glasgow Green,  by William Leiper,  is a
Venetian Gothic building complete with battlement parapet.

The Genius of Scottish architecture is Charles Rennie Mackintosh whose major
buildings  are  in  Glasgow.   In the Scotland  Street  School  1904-6,   he
punctuated  a  3-storey  central block with  flanking  staircase  towers  in
projecting glazed bays.
@5
His  most famous building-Glasgow School of Art 1897-9-is a magnificent  Art
Nouveau  building  of taut stone and glass;the handsome library,   with  its
gabled facade, was added later in 1907.

                             Galleries & Museums
                             -------------------

Scotlands largest tourist attraction, The Burrell Collection, is situated in
Pollock Country Park,  Haggs Road and has more that 8000 Objects,  Housed in
an Award winning Gallery.

The  Art  Gallery and Museum,  Kelvingrove Park,  Argyle Street,  a palatial
sandstone building with glazed central court,  has one of the best municipal
collections  in  Britian;    superb   Flemish,Dutch  and  French  paintings,
Drawings,Prints,  Also ceramics,Silver,costumes and Armour,  as  well  as  a
natural history section.

Provands Lordship c1471,  in castle Street, is Glasgows oldest House and now
a museum of 17th-18th Furniture and household articles.

Pollock House,  Pollock country park,  a handsome House designed by  William
Adam  in  1752  has paintings by William Blake and a notable  collection  of
Spanish paintings including works by El Greco.

The  Museum  of Transport,  housed in Kelvin Hall,  Bunhouse  Road,   has  a
magnificent  collection  of Trams,Cars,Ships Models,Bicycles,   Horse  Drawn
carriages and 7 Steam Loco's.

The People's Palace, The Green, built 1898 with a huge glazed Winter Garden,
has  i  lively  illustrated history of the City.  but the oldest  Museum  in
Glasgow is the Hunterian Museum, University Avenue, opened in 1807, it has a
fascinating collection of manuscripts,early printed books,  as well as  some
fine archaeological and geological exhibits.

400  year old Haggs Castle,  St Andrews drive is now a Childrens Museum with
Practical demonstrations and exhibits showing how every day life has changed
over the centuries.#8

                             -=]5@3 End of Feature]1#8 =-
