^^
                        The Kickstart Amiga Show 2000
                        =============================
The Date: Saturday May 27th 2000
The Time: 12-5pm
The Place: Brook Hall, Brox Road, Ottershaw, Surrey
Admission: £1 per person

The Kickstart Show, sponsored by Amiga Inc and Analogic, is now in its third
year,   and regularly attracts hundreds of show goers in search of a bargain
and the chance to meet and chat with other Amiga Users.  The Kickstart Amiga
User  Group is one of the biggest Amiga user groups in the country,  with  a
membership diverse in age, experience and professional backgrounds.



                 Confirmed Companies and Groups Attending K3:

*  Forematt Home Computing:  Forematt will be demonstrating Clickboom's  new
game  Nightlong on our 8ft projection screen as well as selling a vast array
of Amiga serious software and Games.

*  Ramjam  Consultants:  Ramjam will be selling PFS3,  the  new  Amiga  disk
filesystem and various other Amiga goodies, including brand-new Amiga floppy
drives.

* Epic: One of the largest software retailers in the Amiga market, Epic will
be  selling  a  vast  array  of  Amiga software,  including  both  shareware
collections and commercial applications.

* Digitec UK:  Digitec will be selling a selection of printer supplies (ink,
toner etc) and printer paper.

* SEAL: Once again our good friends at SEAL will be present to promote their
group and their club magazine 'Clubbed'

*  ASA:  The Portsmouth-based Amiga Support Association will be on  hand  to
talk to anyone from the Portsmouth area that is looking to join a usergroup.
* A further 8 stands selling modems,  monitors,  CD-Rom drives,  hard drives
and a diverse collection of Amiga software and hardware.

Refreshments courtesy of CashCo will also be on sale throughout the day  and
a  Kickstart membership stand will be on hand to answer questions and handle
membership enquiries from show-goers.  Also on-sale at the show will be  the
new issue of the Kickstart magazine ‘Amiga Insight’.

Amiga  Inc  has also provided us with a selection of Amiga merchandise  that
will be available on the day!




                       Join the Kickstart Amiga Group:

Analogic  is  also offering a special deal to anyone who joins Kickstart  at
the  show:   Join  Kickstart for just £5 and get a  3.1Gb  hard  drive  from
Analogic for just £80 - that's £50 off the normal selling price!



                                  Giveaways:

Amiga Inc has again agreed to support the Kickstart Show for a second  time,
this year giving us TWO (yes two!) A1200HD Magic Pack bundles to give away.

                            Each pack consists of:

1 Amiga A1200 Personal Computer (2Mb RAM)
260Mb Hard Drive
Full Magic Pack software bundle pre-installed
- Wordworth
- Organiser
- Datastore
- Photogenics
- Personal Paint
- Scala MM300 preinstalled
- Workbench 3.1
- Complete with 3.1 ROMs (Ready for AmigaOS3.5)

One  of  these packs will be given away as a door prize that all show  goers
will be automatically entered for.  The second pack will be given away in  a
separate prize draw for Kickstart members.

Other prizes will be available to runners-up and to the winners of the games
competitions.



                               Demonstrations:

A  number of presentations designed to show you how to use and get the  most
out  of  a  variety of popular Amiga applications and activities  will  take
place throughout the day including:

AmigaOS 3.5
Lightwave
Using Your Amiga for Internet Access
PowerPC Games and Software
Amiga for Beginners



                             Games Competitions:

Our  games  arena  will again be packed out,  with two main  tournaments  in
Multiplayer Quake and Super Skidmarks.

Up  for  grabs  for  the winners of these competitions  are  some  fantastic
prizes:

Quake:   A 3.1Gb Hard Drive and a copy of Clickboom's newest game Nightlong.
Skidmarks: A 3.1Gb Hard Drive and a joystick.

Places for these competitions are limited so make sure you can take part  by
signing up in advance.  From May 20 you can do just that by using our online
sign-up  form.  Just go to http://www.kickstart-amiga.co.uk and  follow  the
SHOW link.

Prizes  for  the  games  competitions have been donated  by  Analogic  (hard
drives), Forematt (Nightlong) and Epic (joysticks).



                                  Contacts:

For  show  enquiries and stand bookings please contact  Ray  McCarthy  (Show
Promoter)  at ray-mccarthy@cwcom.net or call (01737)  215432.  For all other
enquiries,     please   contact   Chris   Green   (PR   Co-ordinator)     at
chris@amigainsight.com or call (07971) 273850.

                             --------------------

                           Directions to the Show:

Directions to Brook Hall:  From the M25,  J11 take the Woking exit,  at  the
next  roundabout take the first left onto the A320 to Woking,  at  the  next
roundabout take a left again into Murray Rd,  about 20yds on the left  is  a
car  park,   park here and Brook Hall is straight in front of you,   on  the
corner  of Murray Rd and Brox Rd.  Public transport:  Ottershaw is close  to
Woking, which is easily accessible from London and the South. From Woking to
Ottershaw transport is by Bus or Taxi. Taxis cost about £5.

PLEASE  NOTE:  All software sold by anyone at the show must be original  and
proof of ownership may be required from vendors before entrance to the  sale
is permitted.  Kickstart reserve the right to refuse entrance to any person,
regardless  of  a booking.  Kickstart cannot accept responsibility  for  any
goods  purchased  at  the show.  Entry to the show  is  at  your  own  risk.
Kickstart  reserve the right to add or remove events from the  show  without
notice.

