*3@3
          THE AMIGA*2@1 -@2 OUT OF THE DUSTBIN AND INTO THE 21st CENTURY!@1
          ----------------------------------------------------------
@5
Talk  of  the Amiga in a room full of people nowadays and you'll either  get
blank  faces or loads of sympathy!  So what has happened to this once  great
machine?
@1
Grandfather:@3  Aye,  I remember when the Amiga came out, best in the world it
was, graphics second to none...
@7
Grandson: @4  Is  that right Grandad? Erm..  I think this PC has  yet  another
virus!
@1
Grandfather:@3  That's right my son, and the software and games were excellent
as  well,   many a time I waggled my joystick at Sensi Soccer,  Championship
Manager and Sex Games - The Deluxe Edi....  erm maybe it's time for bed  now
son!
@7
Grandson:@4 Aw Grandad, it's only 6pm!! 
@1
Grandfather:@3  I know son, but by the time your computer turns itself off, or
that virus does it for you, it will be bed time!

 
@5
This  is now the case,  the Amiga now lies dead under the wheels  of  a  big
truck driven by Bill Gates.  Gates has proven what can be done if you invest
in  something worth-while,  which the Amiga still undoubtedly is.  How  many
brown  footprints attract the flies at Commodore and Escom,   as  so  called
"@1Amiga  minded men@5" evacuated their buildings,  principles and their  bowels
and left a very big stink that all Amiga users can smell to this day.

We were promised a machine that would kick the PC's ass,  or even maybe just
match  it.  Promised a machine of the future that was talked up by  so  many
"@1Amiga  minded@5" magazines.  That machine lies dormant in a dustbin somewhere
in  never-never-land.   I suppose as "@1long suffering@5"  Amiga  users  we  are
getting  too  used  to talk of a new machine without those  that  can  do  -
actually doing something about it.

I  was  told by a mate of a mate about the Glasgow Amiga Users Group.   Like
many Amigans (@3cool name,  only just thought of it!@5) I was expecting an empty
room,  with a single Amiga lying in the corner,  like a baby dumped  on  the
steps,  with a note attached: @2 PLEASE TAKE CARE OF MY BABY@5, I don't have the
856K disks to care for him,  and no-one wants him anymore!  BUT.....!!!  How
wrong I was,  what I came across was a room full of people,  staring  at  an
Amiga  sitting proud in the middle of the table.  In the corner  sat  a  PC,
lonely, desolate, pish!

As I had only just heard of the meeting, I didn't take anything, but those
that did brought software for swapping, swapped phone numbers, advice, and
made some new friends. BUT the best thing of all... those that came along
saw that the @3AMIGA WAS NOT DEAD!!!! 
@5
Most people would gather that those that still have the Amiga as their  main
machine do as misguided loyalty.  They don't seem to understand that the  PC
isn't  the  be-all and end-all of computing.  Yes,  gone  are  the  days  of
Sinclair,   and  Atari,  but the Amiga still has a very strong  backbone  of
support  amongst programmers and users.  The scene with the Grandfather  and
Grandson  illustrates that we are in danger of letting our great machine  go
down in history - without even a decent fight.

There  isn't a lot you can actually do now to improve the Amiga,   very  few
shops stock the material it needs,  and even today, 856K disks are as scarce
as a sober Glasegian on National Drunkard Days.  (@1Monday to Sunday, 52 weeks
a  year!@5).  So most Amigans (@1hey I like that word!@5)  rely on 2nd hand  stuff
from  those that have had enough of it.  I have bought 2 Amigas second  hand
and  the  people I bought them from had bought PCs.  I asked them  why  they
dumped their Miggy.  The answer was that there was very little for  them  to
do with it.  All the games had been played, or the programs had been used...
it had outlived it's usefulness... but most of all,@7 The PC was better!@5
So throwing my money at them,  I uplift the miggy and take it to a place  it
would be appreciated,  abused,  and have hot coffee spilled on it. Sometimes
if  you  are  lucky  they keep the reciepts to let you know  how  much  they
coughed up for the miggy.  One guy had spent over £600 on it, and he sold it
to me for £100.  Does this not tell us something? It tells me this: This guy
invested  in  his miggy,  made it better and was probably  hoping  that  his
investment helped build a better one,  one he could get in the future.   The
same  goes for all the software giants who knew when to get out.  A  lot  of
blame  went  on  Pirates and crackers for their theft of Amiga  games.   But
today  that is rife on the PC and yet Gates is the richest man in the world.
I have seen the odd Amiga game on sale in a shop in Glasgow..  advertised at
£9.99.   So  what  would  I get for £9.99? Investment  in  future  software?
Investment  of  the  Amiga?  No.  So what's the  incentive  not  to  get  it
elsewhere by illegal means?

Perhaps  one day those who hold the rights of the Amiga,  will wake  up  and
work  out exactly what we want.  Even if they made a decent effort  to  keep
the  machine alive,  I'm sure we would all be grateful.  But it  looks  like
Gates'  truck is reversing for one more time...  will the Amiga pull  itself
from the wheels before it's too late?
@4
                          We can only wait and see@1
                         -=]5@3Ronnie aka Postman Plod]1@1=-
