{backimage gamesbak.iff}
{center}
{subhead}Bubble Heroes{def}{p}
Review by Vincenzo Morra
{left}
{pp}
{center}
{image BubbleHeroes1.iff}
{left}
{pp}
Once upon a time there was a planet called Radya, a magnificent world
sustained by the magical power of the Nymph's Queen Adora and the
three sisters. One day shades of grey darkened the world and four
menacing floating islands appeared in the sky. The ruler of the
floating reign was Gonzul, an evil knight who came to conquer Radya 
and its source of magic power. To accomplish his purpose Gonzul
evoked all his powers and casted a spell which separated the four
sisters. While the three sisters were imprisoned in the three
floating islands the queen was taken into Gonzul's castle on the
fourth island. However not all hopes were lost. During the abduction
Adora managed to send a telepathic message to all the inhabitants of
Radya asking for help. Three of them received the message. One of
them decided to accept the challenge.
{pp}
Yes I know, this is not the fairy tale column of a kids magazine, and
if any of you is wondering whether I have gone crazy rest assured
that I am of sound mind. In fact the above is just the crazy plot
that Arcadia Development have invented to justify the existence of
their first game. Ladies and gentlemen let me introduce you Bubble
Heroes.
{pp}
Now, if you are a Playstation gamer you must be familiar with one of
the most famous puzzle game of all time (no, it is not Tetris. That
is THE puzzle game of all time). I am talking about the famous game
called Bust A Move developed by Taito Corp. I still remember the
endless hours I have spent playing that game on my own, competing
with my friends screaming and shouting until the early hours of the
morning. Sleep was just a luxury at that time and after almost losing
my health (and my friends) I had to find the strength to give up my
addiction. What was really amazing about Bust A Move was the
addicting power it had on people who have never played or liked
video-games (wife's, parents and girlfriends for some of you). Before
Bust A Move some of them considered games a stupid and useless waste
of time. After it life changed completely, especially for couples. At
first the sharing phase were they enjoyed playing the game together.
Then the fighting phase ending with the bloke giving up getting his
console back and spending his evenings in the living room watching
Eastenders or Coronation Street. Why, you must be wondering, I am
talking about a Playstation game? Well, that is because Bubble Heroes
(BH) is very similar to the famous Taito's creation, making it an A
class title. Do not let the presentation of the game let you down. Do
not be cheated by the rather Japanese look. Behind that there is one
of the most playable puzzle of all time.
{pp}     
{center}
{image BubbleHeroes2.iff}
{left}
{pp}
The game, which is available on cd only, can be easily installed onto
the hard disk using the Commodore installer. You can choose the level
of installation by selecting  small (just the executable),  medium
(the main game plus all the supporting files), or full installation
(which includes all the in-game animations); choose the latter only
if you have 100 MB of space available on your hard disk. I have
personally opted for a medium installation which took circa 35 MB of
space on my hard disk and worked very well with virtually little
loading times. It is essential to leave the cd in the drive while you
are playing, even if you have chosen the full installation. That is
because all the 25 jingles and music tracks available on the disc are
in CDDA format and need to be loaded throughout the game. Also, if
you are the owner of a graphic card it is necessary to install
RTGMaster version 4, which is included on the CD, if you want to play
the game on a non AGA screen.
{pp}
Once the installation process has been completed, and after choosing
the screen resolution (the game works only on low resolutions) and
the cd device it is time to double click on the main icon. After the
rather basic intro you are taken straight to the menu screen. Here it
is possible to change the control system (keyboard/joystick), choose
the level of buffering and the level of GFX detail (presumably for
slow systems). After choosing the character you want to impersonate
in the game (there are three available - a knight, a prince or a
mercenary) it is time to grab your joystick and begin your journey in
a world of pure gameplay addiction.
{pp}
The rules of the game are very simple; you control a bubble firing
machine sitting at the bottom of the screen, launching multicoloured
bubbles towards other multicoloured bubbles on top of the screen. The
purpose of the game is to connect a chain of two or more bubbles of
the same colour causing an explosion which will cause the bubbles to
disappear and any suspended bubbles to drop on the ground, while the
roof slowly lowers itself down. If you can manage to eliminate all
the bubbles before the stack of bubbles reach the ground level you
have completed a stage. 
{pp}   
{link gr3}On to Part 2{end}
{pp}

