
{center}
{subhead} We live in interesting times{def}{p}
Special Report by Neil Williams
{left}
{p} {p}

Things certainly have been shaken up a bit recently in the Amiga world. 
Firstly, we started hearing rumours that Gateway were unhappy with Amiga
Inc's lack of progress.  Amiga Inc. have led us to believe that they were
getting along fine, but now that Gateway have sent in their top man, no
less, we are actually seeing some progress, and some real information is
beginning to come down the ranks.
{p} {p}
Amiga is about to get an operating system development centre, located in the
USA's big technology area Silicon Valley.  Does this mean they're starting
work on the OS now?  Why only now?  Developer boxes were supposed to be with
us last November yet only now they're recruiting programmers?  The developer
machines are now planned for this coming November, 1999, one year late. 
Some other things are happening to the next generation Amiga.  The operating
system is now "Amigasoft."  A bit more user friendly that AmigOS, and also
differentiates the system from AmigaOS - which as you'll hear soon is not
going away just yet.  Amigasoft 4 will be the first release, just like the
old AmigaOS 4 or AmigaOS5dev would be.  This is for the developers to build
up to the big OS 5 launch.  The first release of OS 5 now appears to be the
first of second quarter of 2000, with OS 4 to be shipped with the developer
machines in November.  There is also some confirmation that Amiga will be
planning a desktop machine, upto now there has been some speculation that
their product range will consist of a set top box and an "A500 style"
machine.
{p} {p}
There is something far more exciting going on though.  We won't just be
getting an unknown quantity with a 'next generation' Amiga - there is a
future for AmigaOS.  Yes, AmigaOS - remember, the next generation OS is to
be called Amigasoft.  It would appear that Amiga Inc. either thinks AmigaOS
3.5 won't cause them any competition, or that it will make them a lot of
money, since there are plans for AmigaOS 3.6 and 3.7 in the form of add-on
packs, and AmigaOS 4!  Haage&Partner are now in charge of the AmigaOS 3.5
project together with Amiga International (the German based side of Amiga),
and have even got the GlowIcons author back on.  Haage&Partner are certainly
one of the more experience AmigaOS companies around at the moment.  They are
building WarpUp support into AmigaOS 3.5 for the PowerPC and it seems
likely their 68k emulator will make it also.  For OS 4, they are planning
PowerPC native versions of the OS, a new kickstart, full support for 68k-less
machines, and I'm sure much more.
{p} {p}
This I am far more excited about - I don't want some unknown "looks
Amigaish" machine, I want "Amiga."  That's not to say I'm not looking
forward to the next generation machine or operating system, just that until
I see it I can't know that it is the AmigaOS replacement it should be.  I'm
involved with a small, Amiga based start up software company - we're not
expecting huge profits, if any, right now - but the AmigaOS announcement is
making all the difference.
{p} {p}
Well, together with the news of new clone machines. Amiga Format carried an
advert for the "A5000" from Power Computing this month. It's a 68k-less
machine, with a PowerPC G3 processor, and sounds pretty good so far. And
there's the Boxer, which although isn't earth shattering as it comes, it's a
modern motherboard with the potential for at least replacing the aging A4000
and A3000 systems.  Finally there's the Escena G3 card for existing
machines.  This I'll be extremely happy with, if the rumours of it working
in A2000 class machines are true.
{p} {p}
This last week or so has seen some pretty big shake ups in the Amiga
community.  Thankfully, this time it's the Amiga companies that are causing
it.  As they say, we live in interesting times.