Open letter to the Amiga Community by Jim Collas

April 1999

This is my first open letter to the Amiga community. In many ways, I am
honored by the opportunity to address such a great community of people and
represent such a unique brand as Amiga. There are many remarkable Amigans,
both former and current, that are responsible for Amiga's impressive
products and its spirit of revolutionary innovation. These are the people
that created the Amiga phenomena and the people that persevered through
these tough times. Amiga communities from across the world have kept the
Amiga spirit alive. I can't claim any responsibility for the early success
of Amiga or the current endurance. I can only praise the people responsible
and hope that I can help bring a new era of greatness to Amiga and fulfill
the hopes of the Amiga community.

The St. Louis show a few weeks ago was the first Amiga show I attended as
president of Amiga.  From the feedback I have received, the show was a great
success. The show was well organized with good attendance and was also a
lot of fun. The number of people who attended was approximately 1,200 but
more important is the fact that there was a 14% increase in attendance from
last year. I made my debut as president of Amiga and I want to thank
everyone who welcomed me to the community.  I especially want to thank
those who welcomed me until 3:00 a.m. in the morning and taught me that
Amigans really know how to have fun. You know who you are.

In St. Louis, I had the opportunity to spend a significant amount of time
with people in the Amiga community. Several times during the show, I
publicly made the statement that the Amiga community is the greatest
community in the computer industry. I am now more convinced of this than
ever. The Amiga community is the most innovative, dedicated, heroic and
enduring community in the computer industry. I am amazed at what the
community has done with little or no support from a corporate entity. You
have endured through extremely tough times and kept the spirit of Amiga
alive and strong.

Unfortunately, some of the difficulties the Amiga community has endured in
the last two years stem from some misguided decisions made by Amiga Inc. It
is now obvious to me that some very big mistakes were made in defining a
path for Amiga in the last two years. The low priority and support given to
Amiga by our parent company, Gateway, aggravated this situation. Gateway
was preoccupied during this period with significant internal restructuring
to strengthen its core business for the future.  The intentions relative to
Amiga were good but the situation was mismanaged. Some people have told me
that I should stop talking about past mistakes and only look toward the
future. I agree with this but I also want people to clearly understand that
I realize how much our past mistakes have hurt the community and delayed
progress. This is important because I do not want to repeat these mistakes
so be patient as I discuss this one last time.

In my opinion, the biggest mistake was the decision not to evolve the
current Amiga architecture as we developed the next generation. This hurt
the current Amiga community the most. The right decision would have been
to overlap product generations just as Apple did during the Apple II to
Macintosh transition. Apple evolved the Apple II architecture by
introducing the Apple III even after Apple came out with the Mac.  The
Apple III wasn't a big seller but it helped Apple II hardware and software
companies and allowed them time to transition their products to the new Mac
platform.

In hindsight and from the vantage of the Amiga community, not evolving the
current architecture may look like an incredibly stupid mistake but it was
not as obvious to people coming from the PC industry. I am not trying to
justify this flawed decision but to give some insight as to how such a
decision could be made.  Living in a computer industry dominated by Wintel
PCs skewed the thinking of people making this decision. In a computer
industry dominated by Wintel PCs, computers are obsolete within six to
twelve months. The inefficiency of the architecture requires a continuous
upgrading of CPUs, graphics, and storage devices in order to deliver
acceptable improvements in features and functions. This is what happens in
an industry where revolutionary innovation has been replaced by constrained
evolution. From this PC centric view, no one could imagine that a computer
architecture that stopped evolving in the early '90s could have any life
left in it. Obviously this view was very limited and flawed as the Amiga
community has proven over-and-over again how much life was left in the
current Amiga architecture.

It is obvious that the community would currently be stronger if we had made
the decision two years ago to evolve the current Amiga architecture. Two
years have now passed and we are faced with a tough question. Is there
still life left in the current architecture? I believe that there is. The
release of O/S 3.5 in late July or early August will allow the current
architecture to live on for a few more years. In addition to O/S 3.5 we
are looking at supporting companies that are looking at hardware
enhancements to the current architecture. We will also support emulation
of the current Amiga architecture on the next generation Amiga so that
people can use most of their old software. I am spending time with key
people in the Amiga community to finalize transition plans between the
current Amiga and the next generation.

Now, it's time to talk about the future! I know this has been an extremely
difficult and painful period for the Amiga community but I would like to
put that chapter of the Amiga story behind us and look toward the future.
We have a difficult road ahead of us with many important decisions to be
made on our future plans. I will not make the mistake again of not
understanding the Amiga community, its requirements, and its dynamics. St
Louis was a good start for me but I require even more input to better
understand the situation. As all of you know, the Amiga community is very
strong in Europe with many Amiga companies and extremely impressive
individuals. I am planning a trip to Germany and the U.K. in late April to
meet with more leaders in the Amiga community. The objective of my trip is
partially to communicate our current thinking but mostly to listen and
understand.  I want to understand the opinions of prominent people in the
Amiga community. I will use this input to finalize our future architecture
and plans. I especially need help in planning out how we will transition
from the old architecture to the new architecture in such a way that keeps
the Amiga community healthy.

One thing clearly requested by the Amiga community was BETTER COMMUNICATION
on the activities at Amiga. I promise to improve our communication starting
with this letter and continuing with frequent postings on our Web site as
well as increased interaction with the community. Our participation in the
St. Louis show and my upcoming trip to Germany and the U.K. are good
examples of our efforts in this area. The letter you are currently reading
is posted on our Web site in the new "Executive Update" section that I will
personally be updating on a monthly basis.  In this section you will also
find an update on major activities listed after the monthly letter to the
community.  I think this is a good start and we will continue improving our
communication as we go forward.  If you have any input on my executive
update web page or on how to improve our communication please send your
suggestions via email to executive@amiga.com. You can also send email to me
directly at jim.collas@amiga.com but I get significant amounts of email so
it may take me a few days to respond. The executive@amiga.com email address
goes to my assistant who in turn directs the email to the Amiga executive
that can most effectively reply.

I know that I have yet to prove my dedication or win your confidence but I
hope to do so over the coming months. As many of you already know, I
stepped out of a senior executive position with Gateway that was a very
prominent position in the PC industry to lead Amiga. I did this because I
believe strongly in what Amiga stands for. I believe in the Amiga spirit
of revolutionary innovation. I believe that the PC revolution is over
because innovative revolution has been replaced by constrained evolution.
I believe that there is a new computer revolution on the horizon, one that
will fulfill the promise of bringing the power of computing to the masses.
Most importantly, I believe that Amiga will play a significant role in this
new computer revolution. But Amiga can't do this without the full support
of the Amiga community.  The Amiga community is one of the greatest and
most innovative communities in the computer industry. It is a revolutionary
army waiting to strike and reclaim its prominent position in the computer
industry. I truly believe this from the depths of my heart and I promise
to use all of my experience, resources, industry contacts, and energy to
give Amiga a strong and aggressive push.  I hope I will not let you down.

Let's keep the momentum going as we come back for the future.

Sincerely,
Jim Collas
President, Amiga
