
{center}
{subhead} Jim Collas Community letter{def}{p}
Article by Jim Collas
{left}
{p} {p}

   Executive Update{p}
· ·  OPEN LETTER TO THE COMMUNITY{p}
July 16, 1999{p}
Dear Amigans,
{p} {p}
The next computer revolution is on the horizon. It is a revolution
that will unleash the full power of computers to the masses and
finally fulfill the promises of the information age. It will create a
new class of computing devices that combine power and simplicity to
make computers and the Internet a natural part of everyday life. They
will be exciting enough for the enthusiast and yet simple enough for
the common person. They will work seamlessly together in a highly
integrated operating environment encompassing the home, business, and
the world through the Internet. This is the future of computing and
the reason why we can't only develop an alternative computer
platform. Faster CPUs and faster graphics alone will not drive a
revolutionary new computer platform.  They are important but not
revolutionary. Revolutionary thinking requires us to let go of past
preferences and envision a future that doesn't currently exist. It
requires us to develop technology and functions that enable this
future vision. This i s the spirit of revolutionary innovation. The
same spirit that drove the original Amiga development team.
{p} {p}
We need the support of the Amiga community to drive this revolution.
The Amiga community is one of the most heroic, passionate, and
innovative communities left in the computer industry. We need these
attributes to succeed because we have charted a bold course. Like
heroic explorers in the past, we can't discover a new continent
without losing sight of the old one for a long period of time. This
makes some people very uncomfortable and anxious but it is a
prerequisite of discovery and innovation. Some of you will feel
compelled to jump ship and swim for familiar shores before we sail
out of site. Most of you will stay for the excitement of the journey
and the reward of discovery. For those of you who are staying with
the ship, tie down the hatches and get ready for the future.
{p} {p}
Before you read the technology brief there are a few concepts that
will help you put it in perspective. One is a high-level view of the
Amiga Operating Environment (OE). Instead of thinking of a single
computer with hardware and an operating system, I would like you to
start thinking about multiple computing devices integrated together
into a single large "virtual" computer and an "operating environment"
or OE to run this "virtual" computer. The OE seamlessly integrates
multiple computing devices into a single, integrated, and seamless
operating environment. Like the OS for a large "virtual" computer.
The OE includes the OS for single computing devices but it also runs
the overall "virtual" computer consisting of multiple computing
devices networked together.  Every connected computing device is both
a building block and a window into this computing environment.
{p} {p}
The other concept to understand is AmigaObject. The AmigaObject is a
powerful software structure used to access computing functions and
capabilities. AmigaObjects are the main structures used to implement
the Amiga OE. They enable easy integration of technology, distributed
computing, high-speed network transactions, and communication between
applications in the OE. They are powerful software building blocks
that will allow people to build impressive applications quickly.
AmigaObjects are portable and transferable across platforms allowing
AmigaObjects to proliferate throughout the network and the Internet.
Since AmigaObjects are transferable and accessible over the Internet,
you can easily extend the Amiga OE through the Internet. This will
become critical as broadband Internet access becomes more and more
prevalent in the future. AmigaObjects are implemented using Java and
Jini technology but are specifically optimized to implement the Amiga
OE. AmigaObjects will allow us to build our revolutionary computer
platform.
{p} {p}
The attached technology brief gives you some more detail on the next
generation Amiga. Before you read it, I have to strongly emphasize
that we have not released some of the most strategic parts of our
vision and technology. The vision of how our technology unleashes the
power of computing in the future is compelling. Unfortunately,
communicating the complete vision at this time would jeopardize our
competitive advantage and business success, especially if we released
this information on our web site. I hope you can understand how
important it is for us to keep certain strategic information from our
competitors. I can only say that all of the few people who have seen
our full vision have been extremely impressed. It is compelling and
will drive the future of computing. I look forward to sharing more
strategic details on the vision in the months to come starting at WoA
and AmiWest.
{p} {p}
Sincerely,{p}
Jim Collas{p}
President, Amiga