
{center}
{subhead} Advantages of being on the internet with an Amiga, Part I{def}{p}
Article by Chris Seward
{left}
{p} {p}

Welcome to the first in a two part series. This issue I am going to take
a look at the advantages of using your Amiga on the internet instead of
any other platform. In the next issue I will take a look at the
disadvantages.
{p} {p}
Ok I admit that there are a lot more disadvantages of using your Amiga
on the internet than there are advantages. Obviously we don't get the
same level of support that the other major platforms like the PC and
Mac do and in issue 24 I will take a look at these. First, the main
advantage of having an Amiga connected is the compatibility, but you
may be wondering what I mean when I say compatibility, right? Well as
the other platforms (mainly the PC) are the mainstream computers of today
most things are made for these computers, meaning that a lot of people will
be programming various things to be used on PCs and they know that if
they program certain things then they will get to a much wider audience
if they make it work on a PC than say on the Amiga.
{p} {p}
What I am getting at is when people produce things for the PC they are
likely to be the most used because it is the major platform and every
author wants to get the most coverage and users no matter which computer
they prefer. A lot of good things are made for the PC like real-audio/
video, java etc. but with good things you also get the bad. The internet
is an easy way to spread things about and how many times have you had
an email which is junk or 'spam' that are advertising things or have
files attached. Mostly these files will be advertising something to do
with the PC and of course are of no use to us Amiga users, but...
{p} {p}
Sometimes these emails can contain files that magically enhance your
PC and make it super fast or speed up Quake by 1 more frame, all things
that PC users dream about and live for. So of course, as you do, Mr.PC user
opens the email and uses whatever program is contained inside; obviously
Mr.PC user then deletes the program because he finds that it has done
nothing... too late. Half the files he has just run are infected with
some virus or program to do whatever the coder of the program intended
it to do. Mr.PC user being the average PC owner doesn't realise what has
happened and goes on like life is all fine and hunky-dorey. A few weeks
pass as he logs on and off the internet, sends email, dcc files to people,
uploads to ftp sites, uploads files to his web space etc, etc. In the next
few days everyone he has come into contact with now has this virus and
their computers are doing exactly what his computer is doing. They pass
programs onto other people, upload here and there and so we have a virus
out of control, affecting millions of PC users all over the world; some
people loose internet accounts because they are accused of sending
malicious emails to other people which is really an effect of the virus
and basically hell is let loose on everyone's computers.... or is it?
{p} {p}
While millions of PC owners around the world are scared stiff into
receiving any files in case of this new virus, us Amiga users are happily
passing programs round, visiting web pages and sending and receiving
emails without a care in the world. Now the Amiga has gone to the back
of the que in the world of computers; viruses are very very rare and most
new virus killers on the Amiga will wipe your system clean of any
old viruses that might be hanging around or the odd one or two that
make it to the virus creators friends HD. Meanwhile the rest of the
world is put on red-alert, schools, businesses and everything and
everyone is infected with this virus while every Amiga user laughs as
they see yet another news story about a mass virus taking control of
everything from shopping tills to pace makers (well, ermm, not exactly but
you get the idea?!)
{p} {p}
So the point is that if you hear a news story about a new email virus,
or receive an email from some unknown person, usually an AOL account or
one that you have never heard of, and it contains a file, chances are
that the file will be for the PC and you can open the email and try run
the program a million times and it still won't effect you.
{p} {p}
The next point I come to is still on the same subject about what type
of files people can run and how they are mainly PC files, but now I
decide to tell you about how files can be passed through one of my, and
hundreds of other, netted Amigas favourite past times, yes, that old
son of a gun, the irc networks.
{p} {p}
IRC is a great place to chat, you can talk to anyone no matter what
computer they are on and no matter where they are in the world. They
could be using a PC or a Psion palmtop for all you know, but having a
rough guess you would do well to say they are using a PC. This is a
fact that you cannot deny; even some of us Amiga users will use the
PC for net surfing because of its advantages which I will explain next
month. It is your choice to surf the net with whatever computer you
choose and I'd just like to point out that I use 100% Amiga, probably
because I don't own any other type of computer but anyway...
{p} {p}
Hundreds of times I have checked to see what type of IRC client someone
is using to find the reply MIRC. Of course, this doesn't happen on
Amiga specific channels but any other general channel or just every
other channel on any irc network that is not for Amiga users will be
filled to the brim with MIRC users or whatever is the current favourite
PC irc program.
{p} {p}
It doesn't take a genius to stick on the thinking cap and take a step
back for two minutes to realise that probably over 80% of the IRC
users they can come in contact with will be using MIRC or some other
PC program that works in a similar way. Time for an IRC exploit, says the
slightly above average PC user (not very hard to be one of those in
my opinion ;) ) I think yes!
{p} {p}
Away goes the above average user and creates a small script to join
every channel in the channel list and on each channel send whatever
script he has written to every user on every channel. A couple of hours
later the user has been round hundreds of thousands of users, many of
them taking the file he has offered just to see what it is and now they
have some alien file floating about on their hard drive doing everything
they don't want it to do from, sending malicious emails to putting
backdoors in their computer so the script creator can gain entry to your
computer whenever you hit the online button. Of course this is true 99%
of the time but that 1% is, yes you guessed it... us Amiga users who
use the Amiga for net surfing. How many times have I been offered a
file from someone who I don't know and just taken it to see what it
is and stop the user bugging me and asked why have I done this? Well if they
are outside the Amiga community then they are obviously not sending
it to me in the hope that I am an Amiga user; they are thinking another
person just took my PC backdoor program, lets go and gain access to
his computer now. While I sit there unaffected some dumb PC user is
trying his best to get into my computer. The point is that this user can't
gain access to my computer because his MIRC script doesn't effect the
Amiga in one way. I have joined many channels throughout the 4 and a
half years I have been online and have received dcc send commands for
a certain file called Script.ini - well this file just so happens to
effect MIRC for the PC and hundreds of times I have accepted this and
laughed to myself thinking of some PC user wondering why he can't
connect to my computer and gain access. Looks like another one up for
the Amiga!
{p} {p}
I hope this little article has been an eye-opener to a few advantages
of having the Amiga 'netted. You may not think there are many but after
a little thought it would be easy to extend on what I have written. You
can see the disadvantages of having your Amiga on the net next month,
which will go into detail about not being able to use things like
real audio and video as well as being limited to web sites that don't
use Java etc.
{p} {p}
If you have any questions, comments or ideas for the next article then
please feel free to send me them and I'll do my best to help or include
your ideas in anyway I can. Send your views to the usual address at,
{p} {p}
{bold}chris@aio.co.uk{nobold}