1
1
0 Rexx.brush 16 10
1 Rexx.brush 16 10
2 Rexx.brush 16 10
2 Rexx.brush 16 10
3 Rexx.brush 16 10
4 Rexx.brush 16 10
5 Rexx.brush 16 10
6 Rexx.brush 16 10
7 Rexx.brush 16 10
8 Rexx.brush 16 10
9 Rexx.brush 16 111
10 Rexx.brush 16 16
11 Rexx.brush 16 16
12 Rexx.brush 16 16*
Hyper           (Disk #853) Will lead you through documents that are
                written to be used with the legendary `Am*gaGu*de' from
                Commodore. An ARexx port gives access to it from other
                applications. Requires OS 2.x. Version 1.17e, an update
                to version 1.15a on disk number 786. Shareware, binary
                only. Author: Bernd (Koessi) Koesling

[ Uusia versiota tulee suosituista ohjelmista jatkuvasti, joten
  sinun ei kannata tuhlata aikaasi vanhan version virheiden
  p‰ivittelemiseen vaan kysy tiet‰v‰mmilt‰ lis‰‰... ]

OriginsDemo     (Disk #852) Demo version of a commercial genealogy
                program. The number of records is limited in practice
                only by available memory and storage. You may track
                attributes of people, such as date and place of birth,
                death, burial, and marriages, and parent/child
                relationships. Details such as baptism, immigration,
                and occupation are also allowed for. Reports:
                individual, family group, pedigree, Ahnentafel,
                descendants, Tiny-Tafel, alphabetical lists. Free-form
                text for sources and notes; display of IFF pictures;
                ARexx functions. The demo version allows a limited
                number of records, has printing of some reports
                disabled, and has GEDCOM utilities removed. Requires
                minimum 1 MB of ram, OS V1.3 or greater, and
                arp.library. Version 1.06, binary only. Author: Jeff
                Lavin



MathPlot        (Disk #849) A function plotter with lin/log plot, a
                complete KS 2.0 interface, and ARexx support. Needs
                Kickstart/WorkBench 2.0 and mtool.library (included).
                Version 2.01, an update to version 1.04 on disk 573.
                Shareware, source available from author. Author:
                Ruediger Dreier

ADM             (Disk #847) A comfortable and flexible address database
                with font sensitive windows, commodity support,
                application window support, an ARexx-port, public
                screen support, and fully controllable from the
                keyboard. It includes user flags (grouping), email
                support, and freely configurable label printing. It can
                fill out letter forms and call your word processor,
                print remittance orders, dial the modem, and has online
                help. Requires AmigaDOS version 2.04 or later. Version
                1.01, German version only. Shareware, binary only.
                Author: Jan Geissler

TextPlus        (Disk #846) A TeX frontend word processor that provides
                facilities for tables, lists, mailmerge, footnotes,
                inclusion of IFF graphics, an ARexx-Port (111 commands)
                and full OS2.0/3.0 compatibility. Makes use of PasTeX,
                Georg Hessmann's Amiga implementation of TeX. New
                features are support for LaTeX, Make-Index (automatic
                index generation) and printing via PRT: (TeX is not
                needed for the latter). This is the English version
                4.10, an update to version 4.00 on disk 700. Disk 845
                contains the German version. Shareware, binary only.
                Author: Martin Steppler
Term            (Disk #833) A gift-ware telecommunications program
                written for AmigaOS 2.0 or higher. Features include
                total configurability, full ARexx control, Xpr-transfer
                support, filetype-identification after download, cut &
                paste/point-and-click on screen, auto upload and
                download, unlimited size scrollable review buffer,
                solid and fully-featured VT102/VT220/ANSI emulation,
                support for external terminal emulation libraries,
                optional fast atomic terminal emulation, hotkey
                support, powerful phonebook and dialing functions,
                ability to save and print the contents of the screen as
                IFF-ILBM or ASCII file, full overscan and screen
                resolution support (AGA and ECS screen modes included),
                asynchronous operation and a lot more. This is version
                3.1, an update to version 2.3 on disks 725 and 730.
                This is part three of a three part distribution, and
                contains the documentation in DVI and PostScript
                formats. Author: Olaf `Olsen' Barthel

AztecErr        (Disk #827) A Manx quickfix support program. If you use
                the quickfix option of AztecC version 5.xx, you can set
                CCEDIT to this program. It opens a window which
                displays all errors one after another. It also has an
                ARexx port and a gadtools user interface. This is
                version 1.25 an update to version 1.0 on disk 761.
                Removed some enforcer hits and is now font independent.
                Requires AmigaDOS 2.04 or higher. Freeware, binary
                only. Author: Hans-Peter Guenther


DMEFReq         (Disk #826) A tool to replace the arp filerequester
                calls of dme or other editors with the asl one. It
                saves the selections to some env variables which can be
                easily examined from rexx or batch scripts. Includes
                examples of how to use it in DMe. Requires AmigaDOS
                2.04 or higher. Version 1.00, freeware, binary only.
                Author: Hans-Peter Guenther

VirusChecker    (Disk #825) A virus checker that can check memory, disk
                bootblocks, and all disk files for signs of most known
                viruses. Can remember nonstandard bootblocks that you
                indicate are OK and not bother you about them again.
                Includes an ARexx port. Version 6.22, an update to
                version 6.06 on disk 680. Binary only. Author: John
                Veldthuis

JukeBox         (Disk #819) A program to play compact digitial audio
                discs by emulating a graphical user interface similar
                to common CD players. It provides a command line
                oriented, fully programmable ARexx user interface, as
                well. Version 1.2522, shareware, binary only. Author:
                Franz-Josef Reichert








InspireDemo     (Disk #815) Demo version of a new, easy to use,
                AmigaDOS 2.0 text editor. The demo is the same as the
                registered version, except that save and print are
                disabled in the demo. Inspire uses the new features of
                AmigaDOS 2.0 extensively, including using the ASL
                requester for font and file selection, and the gadtools
                library for standardized gadgets. The display database
                is used so you may open any type of screen that your
                computer is capable of. Features include an ARexx port,
                undo, find and replace, bookmarks, text centering, word
                wrap, case conversions, clipboard support, auto
                indenting, and more. Version 1.2, binary only. Author:
                Josh Van Abrahams
VCLI            (Disk #807) Voice Command Line Interface allows you to
                execute CLI or ARexx commands, or ARexx scripts, by
                spoken voice command through your Perfect Sound 3,
                Sound Master (Sound Magic), or Generic audio digitizer.
                VCLI is completely multitasking and will run
                continuously in the background, waiting to execute your
                voice command even while other programs may be running.
                With VCLI you can launch multiple applications or
                control any program with ARexx capability completely by
                spoken voice command. VCLI is compatible with both NTSC
                and PAL. This is version 5.2, an update to version 5 on
                disk number 751. New features include the capability to
                load alternate vocabulary files by spoken voice
                command, a choice of Amiga hardware timers to reduce
                interference with other programs, and immunity of the
                display to changes in system fonts. Binary only,
                requires AmigaDOS 2.0. Author: Richard Horne
MXReq           (Disk #806) Creates a customizeable mutual exclude
                requester from a shell or AREXX script. The user can
                select one out of up to eight entries, each of them
                writes an own value to an environment variable.
                Including executable, sources, docs, examples and a
                small bonus tool. Version: 1.20 Author: Andre Weissflog

CyberCron       (Disk #801) A cron utility for AmigaDOS 2.0. Uses the
                new, more flexible, AmigaDOS 2.0 technique for running
                programs. Offers an extended set of options that may be
                specified for any given event. Version 1.5, an update
                to version 1.3 on disk 682, and includes various bug
                fixes, code tweaks, four new ARexx commands,
                documentation in AmigaGuide format, and more. Includes
                source. Author: Christopher Wichura

Convert         (Disk #801) A program that provides the means to easily
                convert numerical values between international,
                Imperial and US systems of measurement. It does this in
                twelve fields of measurement, including area, capacity,
                density, energy, fuel consumption, length, power,
                pressure, speed (velocity), temperature, volume and
                weight. It has a flexible, easy to use GUI and works
                under OS 1.3 and 2.xx. The registered version also has
                an ARexx port. Version 2.0, shareware, binary only.
                Author: Mike Fuller




DateCheck       (Disk #793) A Rexx program that validates the system
                date by comparing it to the date stored when DateCheck
                was last executed. If the system date is earlier or too
                much later than the stored date, the user is notified
                by a requester. Version 1.01. Author: Michael Tanzer

ModHPLJD        (Disk #792) A Rexx program that creates a modified
                version of the HP_Laser Jet driver. The modification
                changes the 'initialize' string so that the font chosen
                from the printer menu (rather than 12pt Courier) can be
                used and the number of lines per inch can be specified.
                Version 1.01. Author: Michael Tanzer

RSM             (Disk #786) An ARexx compatible serial port manager.
                Run your serial port from other programs! Version 1.42,
                C source included. Author: Ron M. Battle

DFA             (Disk #782) NOT just another address utility.
                DFA(ddress) features email support, dialing, different
                types of printing addresses, full commodity support,
                application icon, Arexx port, font sensitive windows
                and can be fully directed by the keyboard. This is
                version 1.1. Shareware, binary only. Author: Dirk
                Federlein






TKEd            (Disk #781) TKEd is a very comfortable Intuition-based
                ASCII editor with an english and german user-interface.
                It can read texts packed with PowerPacker, has user-
                definable menus, a comfortable AREXX interface with 109
                commands, an interface to some errortools for
                programmers, macros, undo, wordwrap, supports foldings,
                has an online help mode, and many other features. TKEd
                is reentrant and can be made resident. It's Kickstart
                1.3/2.04 compatible, supports the new ECS-screenmodes,
                an application window and checks itself for
                linkviruses. Version 1.11, an update to version 1.05 on
                disk 689. Binary only. Author: Tom Kroener

JEd             (Disk #776) Yet another programmer's editor. Lots of
                features, including: total customization, a powerful
                programming language, multifile/multi-view editing,
                number of windows is only limited by memory, clipboard
                support (cut/paste on any unit), any window can have
                any (non-proportional) font, an Arexx interface, and
                more. Version 2.05, (apparently unrelated to the
                version of Jed on disk 297). Requires OS2.0 or later,
                includes source. Author: John Harper








ISpell          (Disk #774) An "Amigatized" port of a Unix version of a
                freely distributable interactive spelling checker. Two
                major modes of operation: Original Interactive Mode to
                allow a user spell check and correct a text document
                and ARexx Server Mode that allows the end user to hook
                ISpell up to text editors and other things that need a
                spell checking service. Regular expression lookup of
                word patterns is also possible in ARexx Server Mode.
                Includes Arexx macros for GUISpell (included),
                CygnusEd, Mg, TurboText, GNU emacs, VLT and WShell.
                Version 3.3LJR, an update to the version released on
                disk number 191. Requires AmigaOS 2.04 or later.
                Includes source. Author: Many! Current version by Loren
                J. Rittle
REXXProgs       (Disk #773) Some good, well-commented, examples of REXX
                programming. Includes Palette.rexx, an ARexx tutorial
                on using the rexxarplib.library to open a window (in
                this case a color palette) on any public screen and
                send messages to another ARexx process. ShoList.rexx,
                displays system lists (libraries, ports, tasks, etc.)
                and Sz.rexx, Displays alphabetically sorted directory
                with filesizes. CLI only. Author: Richard Lee Stockton

Quest           (Disk #773) General purpose interactive AREXX
                question/answer routine that includes a very funny
                script ("HackerTest") to rate your "computerese" and
                hacker ability. Quest can be used for any similiar type
                question-answer script. The original hackertest was
                created by Felix Lee, John Hayes and Angela Thomas in
                September 1989. Author: Erik Lundevall

BBBBS           (Disk #771) Baud Bandit Bulletin Board System. Written
                entirely in ARexx using the commercial terminal program
                "BaudBandit". Features include up to 99 file libraries
                with extended filenotes, up to 99 fully threaded
                message conferences, number of users, files, messages,
                etc. are only limited by storage space, controlled file
                library and message conference access for users and
                sysops, interface to extra devices like CD-ROM and
                others, all treated as read only, complete Email with
                binary mail and multiple forwarding, user statistics
                including messages written, files uploaded or
                downloaded, time, etc, plus much more. Works under
                Amiga OS 1.3 and greater, tested through 3.0. This is
                version 5.7, an update to version 5.5 on disk 729.
                Includes complete ARexx source. Author: Richard Lee
                Stockton

AutoSave        (Disk #771) A small program which calls an ARexx script
                at regular intervals, controlled through a Workbench
                window. Although intended to provide an "AutoSave"
                function for applications, the script can do anything.
                Includes C source, which demonstrates simple use of
                GadTools and the timer device. Requires Kickstart 2.0
                or later. Author: Michael Warner

MemMometer      (Disk #758) A program that opens a narrow window and
                graphically displays your memory usage like a gauge.
                Warps mode will detect changes in regions of memory
                over time. Detected changes are categorized and
                displayed using color coded bands. This is version
                2.40, an update to Version 2.20 on disk number 496. Can
                be used with AmigaDOS 1.2 to 3.0; does 32-bit memory
                addresses. New with version 2.4 is an ARexx port for
                menu functions. Includes source in C. Author: Howard
                Hull

ARexxAppList    (Disk #754) The ARexx Application List. A list (plain
                text) of approximately 175 Amiga programs that support
                ARexx, with brief descriptions of their capabilities.
                Updates are posted in the USENET newsgroup
                comp.sys.amiga.applications. Version dated October 15,
                1992. Author: Daniel J. Barrett

ToolManager     (Disk #752) ToolManager is a full featured program for
                either WorkBench or CLI tool management. Includes the
                ability to add menu items to the 2.x "Tools" menu, add
                WorkBench icons or dock Windows. Features multi-column
                docks that automatically detect largest image size,
                ARexx, sound and Locale support. This is version 2.0, a
                complete overhaul since version 1.5 on disk number 551.
                Complete new "object-oriented" concept and
                configuration is now handled by a preferences program.
                Includes source, lots of graphic images, and
                programmers support for using the toolmanager.library.
                Requires 2.x for full functionality Author: Stefan
                Becker

ExecMaster      (Disk #750) A tool that allows you to start scripts,
                programs and rexx scripts in different ways. You can
                optionally specify an output. This could be a file or
                even a window. It has the ability to iconify and a full
                gadtools user interface with key command support. It
                fully supports PublicScreens. OS 2.xx only. Version
                1.7, freeware, binary only. Author: Hans-Peter Guenther

AmokEd          (Disk #749) A highly configurable editor based on Matt
                Dillon's well known DME. Features a rich command
                language, an ARexx interface and ARexx based
                application port, environment variable support, user
                definable pull down menus, fast scrolling and scroll
                gadgets, multiple file editing, iconification,
                reentrant and can be made resident. Written in Oberon,
                version 1.30, binary only. Requires AmigaOS2.0 or
                higher. Author: Hartmut Goebel

(jatkuu osassa 3)
