1
1
0 Rexx.brush 16 10
1 Rexx.brush 16 10
2 Rexx.brush 16 10*
BBBBS           (Disk #771) Baud Bandit Bulletin Board System. Written
                entirely in ARexx using the commercial terminal program
                "BaudBandit". Features include up to 99 file libraries
                with extended filenotes, up to 99 fully threaded
                message conferences, number of users, files, messages,
                etc. are only limited by storage space, controlled file
                library and message conference access for users and
                sysops, interface to extra devices like CD-ROM and
                others, all treated as read only, complete Email with
                binary mail and multiple forwarding, user statistics
                including messages written, files uploaded or
                downloaded, time, etc, plus much more. Works under
                Amiga OS 1.3 and greater, tested through 3.0. This is
                version 5.7, an update to version 5.5 on disk 729.
                Includes complete ARexx source. Author: Richard Lee
                Stockton

AutoSave        (Disk #771) A small program which calls an ARexx script
                at regular intervals, controlled through a Workbench
                window. Although intended to provide an "AutoSave"
                function for applications, the script can do anything.
                Includes C source, which demonstrates simple use of
                GadTools and the timer device. Requires Kickstart 2.0
                or later. Author: Michael Warner






MemMometer      (Disk #758) A program that opens a narrow window and
                graphically displays your memory usage like a gauge.
                Warps mode will detect changes in regions of memory
                over time. Detected changes are categorized and
                displayed using color coded bands. This is version
                2.40, an update to Version 2.20 on disk number 496. Can
                be used with AmigaDOS 1.2 to 3.0; does 32-bit memory
                addresses. New with version 2.4 is an ARexx port for
                menu functions. Includes source in C. Author: Howard
                Hull
ARexxAppList    (Disk #754) The ARexx Application List. A list (plain
                text) of approximately 175 Amiga programs that support
                ARexx, with brief descriptions of their capabilities.
                Updates are posted in the USENET newsgroup
                comp.sys.amiga.applications. Version dated October 15,
                1992. Author: Daniel J. Barrett

ToolManager     (Disk #752) ToolManager is a full featured program for
                either WorkBench or CLI tool management. Includes the
                ability to add menu items to the 2.x "Tools" menu, add
                WorkBench icons or dock Windows. Features multi-column
                docks that automatically detect largest image size,
                ARexx, sound and Locale support. This is version 2.0, a
                complete overhaul since version 1.5 on disk number 551.
                Complete new "object-oriented" concept and
                configuration is now handled by a preferences program.
                Includes source, lots of graphic images, and
                programmers support for using the toolmanager.library.
                Requires 2.x for full functionality Author: Stefan
                Becker
ExecMaster      (Disk #750) A tool that allows you to start scripts,
                programs and rexx scripts in different ways. You can
                optionally specify an output. This could be a file or
                even a window. It has the ability to iconify and a full
                gadtools user interface with key command support. It
                fully supports PublicScreens. OS 2.xx only. Version
                1.7, freeware, binary only. Author: Hans-Peter Guenther

AmokEd          (Disk #749) A highly configurable editor based on Matt
                Dillon's well known DME. Features a rich command
                language, an ARexx interface and ARexx based
                application port, environment variable support, user
                definable pull down menus, fast scrolling and scroll
                gadgets, multiple file editing, iconification,
                reentrant and can be made resident. Written in Oberon,
                version 1.30, binary only. Requires AmigaOS2.0 or
                higher. Author: Hartmut Goebel
