WOA Issue 2

Hello and welcome to another great issue of WOA! We're in desperate
need of some publicity at the moment, because at the time of writing
(3 weeks before Issue 2 goes out), we have only got 14 registered
readers for issue 1 :( But I guess that's down to a lack of
publicity.

This issue sees the start of lots of new sections. Firstly, and most
importantly, is the Creative section where we will be answering
questions to do with various pieces of software and running tutorials
about several different products. If you fancy writing a tutorial,
then send it (complete!) to us at tutorials@trogsoft.freeserve.co.uk
and we might include it.

At the moment, we've only got one Tutorial about Workbench which is
going to go on for about 5 issues. This issue it explains very
basic stuff to do with the Amiga OS, such as files, directories
and file information files.

Secondly, we've added the chat's section where me and a few other
people get together on london.uk.eu.undernet.org on the #amiclub
channel and have a chat!

We've also added an index of all articles in previous issues. We've
updated our news service to provide more uptodate news and more
of it! And, we've got a new PD editor who's got his own section for
PD related stuff. Sam Brookes is his name and he's also written a
couple of features for us aswell.

Unfortunately, we don't have many reviews of anything this issue, but
we've managed to get above 50 articles regardless. But the reviews we
do have in the games section are mostly exclusives anyway! Zombie
Massacre, Amiga ClassiX are the Exclusives and we've also reviewed
Ultimate Super Skidmarks which we are giving away in one of our
competitions this issue.

Oh yes, The competitions! You can win 2 seperate things, in two
seperate articles. Firstly, I've got a copy of the Ultimate Blitz Basic
CD and Antony's organising his own compo where you can win Ultimate
Super Skidmarks (Both on CD).

We've got serious reviews of the AriadneII Ethernet card, an Exclusive
on the offical Amiga mouse, the Power Typhoon accellerator and
the Blitz Basic CD.

Six features in all, One on Realplayer for the Amiga, One on Copyright,
one on Piracy, an Interview with the author of one of the Amiga Heretic
ports, and the two features from Sam, which are about Email Forms, and
the Computer Market.

Since It's Trogladite Software's 4th Birthday this month (Feb), we have
got a small article about it. The reason it's small is because I
couldn't be bothered with it :) We haven't acheived that much yet
anyway. On the other hand, someone who has acheived a lot in the Amiga
world is Gareth Murfin and his Alpha Software, which is also 4 this year.
And as such, we have two extensively detailed articled from him.

Details of our new products, our chats, back issue index, and various
other stuff are also in this issue, along with Sam's PD reviews, which
include Revenge 2, by Simon Hitchen.

So, as you might have figured, a pretty good issue this time. Enjoy it!

---

Credits for Issue one!

Editor: Neil Bullock
Games Editor: Antony Pieroni
Production Editor: Greg White
PD Editor: Sam Brookes
Technical Editor: Neil Bullock

Contributors:
   Gareth Murfin
   Dirk Harlaar
   Matt Sawyer

---

Contact us

World Of Amiga in general: woa@trogsoft.freeserve.co.uk
   Should put something in the Subject for this one. Subject lines are
   given in some articles.

Antony: ap@trogsoft.freeserve.co.uk
   Don't need any subject line for this.

Sam: woa_pd-editor@ami-gerbil.freeserve.co.uk
   Doesn't need any specific subject line, but put something that will
   help sam tell what it's about.

Greg: grog@freenet.co.uk
   Any comments about our HTML online version? Send them here.

---

Copyright

All contents, except Gareth Murfin and Matt Sawyer's articles, are
copyright ©1999 Neil Bullock and Trogladite Software. Whole articles
or large portions of articles may not be reproduced under any
circumstances without written permission from the copyright holder.
Small portions may be taken from articles and used as quotes.
Whole archive can be redistributed freely as long as no more than
a nominal fee is charged and no files are added or removed. Legal
action can be taken against people who choose to ignore this
information.
