[1mAmiga NG[0m

Now, the Amiga market seems to be dwindling to nothing. There are still
tens of thousands of you dedicated people out there, if not millions,
but compared to other computer markets, the Amiga is very small. However,
this should not concern you.

Amiga Inc are taking positive steps to relaunching the Amiga as the best
home computer. If they go about it in the right way, then people
should not only start flocking back to the Amiga, but people who have
never even heard of the machine should start appearing on the scene.

Many people are concerned that the new Amiga will be completely different
when compared to the Classic Amiga, but to Amiga Inc., that's exactly
what they want. They don't want people linking the Amiga with it's
rather disastrous past, and therefore, need to make the machine different.

Amiga Inc already have partners for the new Amiga OS, QNX. You all know
that by now (we reported that back in Issue 1), so it's fairly obvious
that something is happening at Amiga HQ. And while development of the
'provisional' OS (WB3.5) should be nearing completion by late '99, it
still remains to be seen whether these November boxes will be out soon.

You have to remember that November box referred to the intended release
date of November 1998, It's now April 1999 and if they've only just
been released (I don't know at the time of writing), then it's pretty
obvious they're behind schedule quite a bit.

But remember, what makes a company tick is money. Amiga Inc probably has
quite a bit of that, and all of it will have come from the parent
company, Gateway 2000. When OS3.5 appears, buy it! It'll be about £25-30
and those of you who already have the correct ROM chips are in the best
position to do so, so once 3.5 comes out, get it, and give Amiga Inc the
money they need.

It's not as if OS3.5 won't be worth it, but it'll take a lot to persuade
people who have something like Directory Opus to go out and revert back
to Workbench, no matter how good it is. However, even though I now use
DOpus instead of Workbench, I am still going to get OS3.5, and it would
help Amiga Inc. if you did the same.

Peter Cage