Dear Amigans,

April was a very busy month for Amiga with much activity and good
progress.. I received over 1200 emails from people around the world, I met
with key representatives of the Amiga community in Germany and the U.K, we
added to our executive staff, we established relationships with key
technology partners, and we finalized our 1999 product plans.

The amount of emails I received from the Amiga community has been
overwhelming. Most of them were emails of support and encouragement while
many others gave me suggestions and input on technology and products.
These emails have been wonderful. They are uplifting, insightful,
interesting, and fun to read. People in this community have a great
personality. Many were short emails of encouragement but just as many went
on for several pages listing insights, suggestions, and opinions.  Thank
you very much for your emails of support. They have been tremendously
encouraging to the Amiga executive team and me. There were, of course, also
some emails sent by Amigans who are frustrated by the situation. These
emails were also valuable in giving me insight into the mistakes of the
past so that I could avoid them as we press toward the future.  Please keep
the emails coming.

I apologize for not responding to all of the email sent to me. I have
personally responded to over 600 emails but was unable to keep up with the
volumes. I want to assure you that I read every email sent to me and that
they play an important role in defining our future plans. I will continue
to respond to as many emails as possible on a personal basis. This brings
me to the main subject of this month's letter: communication. It is
important that we set up an effective process for communicating with the
Amiga community. Emails and requests for meetings are overwhelming Amiga
executives at this time.  This volume of communication is very encouraging
but I am concerned that we can't personally respond to every one of them
and it will become frustrating to the community.

We are working on plans to improve communications between Amiga and the
community. These plans will consist of multiple programs including: the
current executive update, an email response team, a new Amiga Advisory
Council, polls on future product features, better monthly user group
communication, and improved communication to the Amiga press. Detailed
information on all of these programs will be posted on our web site in the
next several weeks. In addition to keeping the community up to date on
Amiga activities, the main goal of these programs is to involve the
community in setting future Amiga plans. All of us need to work on this
together to make sure we are setting plans that will help the community
and allow Amiga to drive the next computing revolution.

One of the planned communications programs is a new "Amiga Advisory Council"
or AAC. The idea for this program came from my discussions with people in
the Amiga community.  It is difficult to get thousands of people involved
in our planning process so we need to establish a more manageable forum.
The plan is to set up an advisory council consisting of people that are
viewed as leaders in the Amiga community. Members of this council will be
"elected" by the Amiga community. We are currently working on the details
of the "election" process. This council must represent all major
constituencies of the Amiga community so that we can get a full set of
concerns and inputs regarding future Amiga plans. We will set-up special
message boards, email lists, and meetings allowing the AAC to communicate
effectively. Information on AAC meetings and decisions will be communicated
to the Amiga community. Keep watching our web site for updates on this
program. We will also make sure information gets published to Amiga
magazines and user groups.

In late April I traveled to Germany and the U.K. to meet with
representatives and leaders of the Amiga community to discuss Amiga's
future plans and get the community's help in setting these plans. I
apologize to the people that did not have the opportunity to participate
in these meetings but I had to keep the meetings to a manageable size.
There were about 30 to 40 people in each country representing developers,
dealers, distributors, user groups, and press. I think that these meetings
were very informative and productive. They will allow me to optimize our
future plans while taking the requirements of the Amiga community into
account. To give you an example, we spent a considerable amount of time
talking about how to bridge the community from the current Amiga platform
to the next generation. The current Amiga platform has several years of
useful life remaining but people are not investing in it because it is
dated and the next generation is around the corner. One suggestion is to
port the next generation AmigaSoftTM Operating Environment (OE) so that it
runs on a current Amiga configured with a Power PC expansion card.  This
would not be an optimum configuration but it would extend the life of
current PowerPC Amigas. We are looking into this possibility and will keep
you updated.

On a personal note, I had a wonderful time in Germany and the U.K. The trip
was both productive and very enjoyable. The trip was packed with excellent
food and good people. I really enjoyed meeting with people from the Amiga
community. After six years of working with executives in the PC industry,
it is a breath of fresh air to work with people that have so much passion
and enthusiasm about what they believe in. I especially enjoyed the extended
conversations in the bars and pubs. These tended to get even more passionate
and creative. To those of you who participated in the events, I thank you
for making my trip both productive and enjoyable. In case you are curious,
the most challenging part of my trip was sitting still while Petro drove me
on the autobahn at 240 km/hour. I thank god for solid and stable German
automobiles and good German beer.

Before I end this letter I would like to cover a few more topics that came
up frequently in emails sent to me. First, I would like to clarify our
hardware product plans. Amiga is planning to come out with a next generation
multimedia computer in late Q4 of the year. This computer will have a unique
architecture, a great operating system, awesome 3D gaming performance, and
advanced multimedia features. I am confident that this computer will meet
your expectations for a great next generation Amiga. Unfortunately, we can't
disclose details of the new computer yet since we are under non-disclosure
agreements with our technology partners. We also need to be careful about
alerting our competition to our plans. One thing I can say is that the
technology partners we are working with are extremely excited about our
direction and technology. There are Amigans in all major technology
companies and they are eager to support us in driving a new computer
revolution. These partners include some major technology and component
companies in the computer industry. We should be ready to disclose more at
the World of Amiga and AmiWest shows in July.

The new Amiga multimedia computer will also support a home networked
"information appliance" environment that will allow networked devices
throughout the house access to the power and features of this computer.
I need to clarify the term "information appliances" which is becoming a
popular term in the computer industry. "Information appliances" are not
digital toasters, refrigerators, and ovens with LCD displays. They are
devices such as wireless LCD tablets, Internet terminals, game machines,
and digital set-top boxes.. These devices will all be connected together
through a single network and will be integrated into a single comprehensive
operating environment. This is the reason why we use the term "operating
environment", or OE, to describe our new software rather than operating
system. Our software is much more than the underlying operating system.

In addition to the full multimedia computer described above, Amiga will
also develop reference desigs for a variety of "information appliance"
companion devices such as wireless LCD tablets. Our goal is to enable a
full home computing environment rather than just a computer. We will
encourage others to develop and ship Amiga-compatible computers and
information appliances. To help clarify our plans to the Amiga community,
we are releasing our initial product concept to the Amiga press to publish
in the next issues. I hope this helps clarify our product plans. We will
continue to disclose details as they become available and as is appropriate.

The second topic that I would like to cover is Amiga support for
developers.. The Amiga development community is important to us and we will
be taking an active role in support Amiga developers. We are evaluating
plans for financial support as well as in-depth technical support. We will
communicate more about this plan within 60 to 90 days when we also start
releasing more technical information for developers.

I have also updated the "major activities" sub-section under the "executive
update" section on our web site. This will give you some more detail on the
status of Amiga programs so I encourage you to read it. We have also added
a top 10 questions web page to the "executive update" section. This page
will answer the top questions asked in emails sent to me.

In closing I would like to say that I am more excited then ever about the
opportunities for Amiga and the Amiga community.  It has been a long wait
but the Amiga community is still the greatest community in the computer
industry and the time is ideal for a new revolutionary architecture and
platform.. I will keep you posted on our progress and promise to disclose
as more details as soon as possible and appropriate.

Sincerely,
Jim Collas
President, Amiga

