Workbench Tutorial Part 2

PART 1: The Icon Information Requester
>> PART 2: Customising Workbench
PART 3: Customising Workbench Part 2
PART 4: Add-Ons and Hacks
PART 5: Startup Sequences

If you are not reading the HTML version, then all pictures are in
the directory you found this article. Just double click on them to
see them.

I hope you found the first part of this series useful. However, now
we've got past the basics of files and directories, we will concentrate
on customising your Workbench in the best way possible.

There are a few programs included with Workbench which are designed to
customise Workbench and these are stored in the Prefs directory.
Quite a few of the programs are designed to set up things like your
printers, and serial port and stuff like that, and all that will
be covered in next issue, but for this issue, we'll be concentrating
on the physical attributes of your Workbench Screen.

As a starting point, lets say you've just installed Workbench and
when you boot up you get a nice grey screen with a few icons on it.
First of all, you might want to change your palette settings. Maybe
change the pretty standard blue to another colour to something like
light purple or green or something.

To do this, you need to get into the Prefs directory in your main
Workbench disk or partition. Find the program called 'Palette' and
you will be faced with something which looks like picture 1.

The main thing is the big multicoloured circle on the left hand side
which is known as the colourwheel. Above the colourwheel is a box
with 8 colours in it. If you click on one of the colours in the box,
you get to change the colour using the colourwheel. Just move the
black handle around the colour wheel.

Theres a long thin box to the right of the colourwheel. There are
usually called prop gadgets, or slider bars. Once you've set a colour
with the colour wheel gadget, you can change the shade of the
colour. This means that between all the colours in the colourwheel
and all the shades in the prop gadget, you can choose from exactly
16,777,216 colours!

So once your colours are set up, you can get to work with some of the
other things. If you use a big box Amiga and have a flicker fixer
of a Graphics card with a built in flicker fixer then you might want
some more space on your screen. The Amiga oprates using 'Screenmodes'.
There are no computers which use Screenmodes, but other computers
use Screen resolutions to specify how big the screen is in pixels
(Ie, 800x600).

The Amiga's screenmodes tell you how many pixels you get, just as
Screen resolutions do. But the Screenmodes are named. Your Amiga will
start off in 'Hires' (High-Resolution) which is 640x256 pixels. This
is a 1x2 pixel mode, meaning that the pixels are twice as high as
they are wide.

You can go a resolution lower to 'Lores' (Low-Resolution) which is
usually 320x256 and has a 2x2 pixel resolution. However, you can get
a higher resolution than Hires, Hires-Interlaced (High-Resolution
Interlaced).

This screenmode is not something that the Amiga can send out in real
time. It's something to do with the frequency that the Amiga sends
out it's signals at, but that's not something I'm going to go into.
The HiresLaced screenmode is a 1x1 screenmode and is 640x512 pixels
in size.

You can go higher than this, Say SuperHiRes which is 1280x256 pixels
and is a 1x4 pixel mode (meaning that pixels are 4 times taller than
they are wide). This gives you a very large amount of space on your
screen, but you will find that icons look very strange on this
sized screen. You can go up to SuperHiResLaced which is 1280x512
and, like all Interlaced screenmodes, is not something which the
Amiga can send out properly.

The Amiga sends out Interlaced signals in two halves. The first
half is sent out a split second before the second half so that the
Amiga can keep it's frequency low and compatible with video recorders.
This results in flicker on the screen which is why you would need a
flicker fixer.

So, to change your screenmode settings, you need to start the 'Screen
mode' program in the Prefs directory. You'll see something like Picture
2. On the left, you've got a scrolling listview which lists all the
available screenmodes you can get. Click on one, and it's information
will be displayed in the right hadnd box. You can set how many colours
you want on screen, and exacly how many pixels you want, so you
don't have to stick to the defaults.

Click Save to save the settings. Your new screenmode will be changed
straight away. If you've set your screenmode to something high, then
you probably won't be able to read anything on the screen because the
text is too small. Different styles of text are called Fonts.

And you can set the Fonts which are used on the screen. All fonts on
your system are stored in your main Workbench partition, and in the
Fonts directory. In your startup sequence, a device called 'Fonts:'
is set up.

When you start the Font program in the Prefs directory, you will see
the current settings in the top box, and 3 large buttons underneath
that, like in picture 3.

If you click on 'Workbench Icon Text' then you will get a standard
Font requester. This allows you to choose a font to use for underneath
icons on the screen. You can choose any of the fonts on your system
for this job. When choosing main Icon text, you can also choose the
font colour.

Clicking on any of the other two buttons will allow you to choose the
corresponding font. You can only choose fixed width fonts for the
other two tasks, IE, ones where each character is the same width.

And when you click on Save, you'll get your fonts changed straight
away. Next, we'll look at your Pointer. If you really want a better
pointer, then you'll have to design your own. The Amiga uses a smooth
method of mouse pointer control, unlike the PC. The Amiga blitter
chip (the one which handles graphics) takes care of the pointer by
making it a hardware sprite which are very smooth and very fast.

Load the Pointer program and you'll instantly be faced with either
a screen or a window. It appears that Workbench just puts up which
ever it feels like, which means that your pointer program may look
a bit different to the one in our screenshot.

Basically, you can use the Pointer program to redesign your pointer.
You can use any of the 4 colours available. The main big image is
your currently used pointer, you've got the basic colour palette
you can use, and a few other buttons.

The Test button allows you to test the pointer which is displayed in
the drawing box. Clear clears the drawing box with the currently
selected colour. Set point allows you to set the position on the
pointer that will be the place where clicks are detected from. Reset
Colours will turn all the colours back to their default values. You
can change them yourself by clicking on them and using the prop
gadgets to set the red, gree, blue components of the colour.

The reason they are called prop gadgets is because they are
PROPortional. They can't be called Proportional gadgets on the PC
because they aren't proportional. They just move and aren't relative
in any way to the thing they represent. The Amiga prop gadgets
show a proportion of the thing they represent.

If you click on the Cycle gadget which says 'Lowres' and the size
of the pointer will change to Hires. And if you click on the 'Normal'
cycle gadget, you will get to design the busy pointer aswell, and
when you're finished.

Finally for this issue, we'll take a look at adding a backdrop to your
Workbench. You'll need the 'WBPattern' program running. It looks some
thing like Picture 5. You get to set up a picture which will appear
on your Workbench screen and in your Windows.

First of all, select where you want the picture to appear. The cycle
gadget which is labelled 'Placement:' select 'Screen', 'Window' or
'Workbench'. It's sort of self explanitary, A backdrop on the Screen
will appear on the Screen, on Workbench will appear on the Workbench
screen/backdrop window, and Window will appear in any window which
appears on the screen.

Select the Type of backdrop you want, either Pattern on Picture. If
you select pattern, you can draw the pattern in the right half of the
window. If you select Picture, then you can load in a picture using
the 'Select Picture' gadget. Click on Test to see what your backdrop
will look like and select Save to save the settings.

And that's it! Next issue we'll be looking at the other programs in
the preferences drawer, such as the Printer programs and all the other
stuff.
